Paris attacks: day after atrocity - as it happenedU2 lead singer Bono has said the Paris massacres, especially the attack on the music concert, was Islamic State’s first “direct hit against music”. Bono said the bombs and bullets at the Eagles of Death Metal concert showed the attackers don’t like music.“Our first thoughts at this point are with the Eagles of Death Metal fans,” Bono told the Dave Fanning Show on Irish radio 2FM on Saturday. The U2 star added: “When you think about it, the majority of victims from last night’s attacks were music fans.“So this really is the first direct hit on music we’ve had on this so-called war on terror.“We know that they don’t like music … and this and the cold-blooded aspect of last night’s attacks are what are really upsetting because it means it could have been any of us. Meanwhile Ulster’s European Rugby Champions Cup clash with French side Oyonnax was cancelled on Saturday due to the killings in Paris. Ulster’s manager Bryn Cunningham said he fully backed the European Professional Club Rugby’s decision to cancel Saturday’s game.“We fully support the EPRC in this decision – a difficult one and that’s why it took a number of hours on Saturday morning to make it.“However, rugby is fairly insignificant in all of this. Our thoughts, prayers and sympathies go out to the French public.”
Suspect's Brother Says He's 'A Normal Person'The brother of a man suspected of helping carry out the deadly terrorist attacks in Paris on Friday denied involvement with the violence and insisted that his brother, still at large, is “a normal person.”Mohamed Abdeslam, who is the brother of suspect Salah Abdeslam and was detained by police over the weekend, told reporters from his home on Monday, “I cannot tell you why, I cannot tell you how [they did what they did],” the Associated Press reports. He also did not know the whereabouts of his brother or whether his sibling would turn himself in. Another brother, Brahim, was identified as one of the suicide bombers who attacked on Friday, the Washington Post reports. When asked if he noticed anything unusual about his brothers before the attacks, Abdeslam said, “Absolutely nothing. Two brothers who act normally.” He elaborated: “You must know that [Salah] grew up here. He studied here. He is a normal person. I cannot tell you more than that.”Abdeslam also asked the media to be considerate of the rest of his family, who he said were in shock and “don’t quite realize what has happened.” “We are indeed thinking of the victims, the families of the victims,” he concluded. “But you also have to remember that we have a family, we have a mom, and he remains her child.”
Latest developments in Paris attacksPolice officers have been shot and wounded during a raid seeking one of the suspects in the Paris terrorist attacks, CNN affiliate BFMTV reports. The report comes shortly after witnesses reported heavy gunfire and roads blocked by police in the northern Paris suburb of Saint Denis, home of the Stade de France national stadium, site of one of Saturday's attacks. Two Air France flights headed for Paris -- AF55 originating in Washington's Dulles Airport -- and AF65 from Los Angeles -- were diverted to Halifax, Nova Scotia, and Salt Lake City, respectively, following bomb threats, officials say."Several law enforcement agencies are working to determine the nature of the threats which caused the aircraft to divert," FBI Special Agent Todd Palmer of the Salt Lake City division said. It is unknown whether the same individual called in the two threats. No U. S. military aircraft were scrambled in either of the reported Air France incidents, NORAD spokesman Preston Schlachter said. The validity of the threat is not known at this time, but given the events in Paris Saturday, in which 129 people were killed, officials were taking extra precautions by diverting the flights."Diversion of flights are the most draconian response to a bomb threat," CNN national security analyst Juliette Kayyem said. "I think right now we take this seriously until we hear some explanation to the validity of the bomb threat."A Renault with Belgian plates and a cell phone containing a chilling message were among the focuses Tuesday in the sweeping multinational investigation into last week's terror attacks in Paris that killed 129 people. French President Francois Hollande says his country "is at war" after three teams of gun-wielding ISIS suicide bombers hit six busy locations. His military backed up the statement by pounding ISIS targets in Syria with airstrikes. Russia launched airstrikes and cruise missiles there. Meanwhile, a glimmer of hope for Syria's civil war, as America's top diplomat says a ceasefire could be on the horizon. Here's the key information at this stage:-- NEW: As a growing number of U. S. governors said they don't want Syrian refugees in their states, President Barack Obama fired back."I cannot think of a more potent recruitment tool for (ISIS) than some of the rhetoric that's been coming out of here during the course of this debate," Obama told reporters. Arguments that there should be a religious test before refugees are admitted or that only Syrian Christians should be allowed in are "offensive" and "contrary to American values," he said.-- NEW: Obama accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of going after the wrong target in Syria, saying Russia has been more focused on propping up President Bashar al-Assad's regime than on fighting ISIS. "If, in fact, he shifts his focus and the focus of his military to what is the principle threat, which is (ISIS), then that is something that we very much want to see," Obama said.-- NEW: U. S. intelligence had some information on four of the suspected attackers before the Paris attacks, but they weren't on any watch lists used to check against traveler manifests, two intelligence officials said. "These people were known to us, known to be involved in terrorist activity, known to be people who needed to be scrutinized," Senate Select Committee on Intelligence member Sen. James Risch told CNN. "Which exact lists they were on is classified."-- First on CNN: Investigators have recovered multiple cell phones at the scenes of the attacks believed to belong to the attackers, a possible big break that could help unravel the plot and the suspected network behind it, counterterrorism and intelligence officials told CNN's Evan Perez and Shimon Prokupecz. According to the officials, at least one phone contained a message, sent some time before the attacks began, to the effect of: OK, we're ready. French investigators have found encrypted apps on the phones, the officials said. The apps appear to have left no trace of messages or indication of who would have been receiving the messages, according to officials briefed on the French investigation.-- Authorities think there's a second suspect from the Paris attacks on the run, French Ambassador to the United States Gerard Araud said. As they work to confirm whether that's the case, police are analyzing a video recorded by a witness that may show that suspect inside a car tied to the attacks, French media reported. The video shows two gunmen inside a black SEAT and perhaps a third individual driving the car, France 2 said.-- For days, investigators have said they're searching for suspect Salah Abdeslam. They haven't found him yet. But on Tuesday, French media outlets reported that authorities had found a car he rented. A black Renault Clio with Belgian plates found in Paris' 18th arrondissement, on the north side of the city, had been rented by Abdeslam, 26, police sources said, according to French media outlets.-- Abdeslam, a French citizen, was the subject of a "routine check" on a motorway in northwest Austria on September 9, said Karl Heinz Grundboeck, spokesman for Austria's Interior Ministry. The routine check did not result in any further investigation.-- One of the voices heard in an ISIS video claiming responsibility for the attacks is that of Fabien Clain, a French senior ISIS operative, according to a French security source. Clain, who was convicted in 2009 for his involvement in al Qaeda in Iraq recruitment effort, is suspected of having a link with a plot to attack churches in Paris in April and the thwarted attack on the high-speed Amsterdam-to-Paris train in August, European security officials told CNN.-- Les Beguines, a Brussels bar registered to one of the Paris attackers, Ibrahim Abdeslam, was closed for drug-related offenses eight days before the Paris attacks, according to Molenbeek Mayor Francoise Schepmans.-- Prior to the Paris terrorist attacks, France and its allies tried to target Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the prominent ISIS member believed to have planned the attack, a French source close to the investigation said. They were unable to locate him, the source told CNN. Secretary of State John Kerry told CNN he could not confirm the report. Abaaoud is believed by counterterrorism officials to be the likely link between the senior ISIS leadership and the militant group's operatives in European countries.-- Officials have identified three of the suicide bombers as Frenchmen Samy Amimour, Ismael Omar Mostefai and Bilal Hadfi. The newspaper, Le Monde, reports that Salah's older brother, Ibrahim, was one of the suicide bombers. Belgian federal prosecutor Eric Van Der Sypt said the Abdeslam brothers and Hadfi were known to Belgian authorities before Friday. Hadfi was among those who attacked the Stade de France, officials said.-- Police, issuing a photo, asked for the public's help identifying one of the suicide bomber who attacked the Stade de France. After the attack at the stadium outside Paris, police found an emergency passport or similar document identifying him as a 25-year-old Syrian using the name Ahmad al Muhammad. Authorities believe the name is fake. A police spokesman said the man in the picture is not French and they don't know whether he's from Syria.-- The latest Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine is expected to hit newsstands Wednesday. The cover reads: "They have the weapons. Screw them. We have the champagne!" The magazine's office was the target of a terror attack in January.-- Russian President Vladimir Putin and French President Hollande spoke on the phone and "the two leaders paid special attention to stepping up bilateral and multilateral cooperation to counter international terrorism," the Kremlin said.-- Hollande will visit Washington next week, U. S. Secretary of State John Kerry said.-- French authorities carried out 128 new security raids overnight, officials said. They put 23 people into custody, 104 under house arrest and seized weapons that include a rocket launcher. Who were the suspects behind the attacks?-- German officials said they haven't found any explosives or made any arrests at a stadium in Hannover, Germany, which was evacuated just before a friendly match between Germany and the Netherlands. Officials canceled the match after police uncovered "serious plans for explosives," police official Volker Kluwe told German public broadcaster NDR. German Chancellor Angela Merkel scrubbed plans to attend. Why did they call off the match? French intelligence came in "regarding a radical Islamist living near Hannover, allegedly planning to attack (a) 'football event,' '' said Florian Flade, a security analyst and reporter who spoke with German intelligence and security officials.-- A soccer match between Belgium and Spain, scheduled in Brussels, was also canceled for security concerns.-- The France-England soccer friendly kicked off under tight security at Wembley Stadium in London. Players and fans united to sing the French national anthem, followed by a minute of silence. "I'm proud to have been at Wembley tonight as thousands of football fans sang 'La Marseillaise' to show solidarity with France," British Prime Minister David Cameron tweeted.-- Earlier Tuesday, Cameron told Parliament he would try to convince lawmakers to approve airstrikes against ISIS in Syria. Presently, the UK is participating only in strikes on Iraq.-- Kerry said a new coalition that includes Iran and Russia "gives us an opportunity to, perhaps, get a ceasefire in place within the next three, four, five weeks," ending a civil war in Syria that's been ongoing since 2011.-- The Russian Metrojet plane jet that crashed over the Sinai last month was brought down by a bomb estimated to contain 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of explosives, the head of the Russian Federal Security Service said. ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack. Russia is offering $50 million for information leading to the arrest of those responsible. Egypt's government said it would "take into consideration" the Russian findings.-- Ten French warplanes were involved in overnight airstrikes on the ISIS-stronghold of Raqqa, Syria, the Defense Ministry said. Six jets delivered 16 bombs and hit a training center and command center that were part of the ISIS headquarters, the ministry said. Russia also doubled its airstrikes against Islamic State targets in Syria, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said, explaining that it had hit ISIS targets with airstrikes and cruise missiles in Raqqa, Deir Ezzor and Aleppo and Idlib provinces. In total, the minister said, Russia conducted 127 missions targeting 206 terrorist sites.-- More than two dozen U. S. states have said they oppose accepting any refugees from Syria. The State Department said it is taking the governors' concerns seriously, but it remains "steadfastly committed" to bringing in 10,000 Syrian refugees next year, spokesman Mark Toner said. How the ISIS fight went global
Paris attacks 'ringleader' Abaaoud fate unknownThe Paris prosecutor has said the fate of the suspected organiser of Friday's attacks remains unknown after a police raid on a flat ended in bloodshed. Francois Molins told reporters Abdelhamid Abaaoud was not among eight people arrested during the raid in the Paris suburb of Saint Denis. However, human remains found in the rubble of the flat had still to be identified, he said. A woman blew herself up and another suspect was shot dead during the raid. The building was so badly damaged that it is unclear if there is a third body in the rubble, an interior ministry spokesman said. Abaaoud is said to have organised Friday's gun and bomb attacks in Paris, when 129 people were killed. All of the victims of the attacks - which targeted a concert hall, cafes and the Stade de France stadium and were claimed by the so-called Islamic State (IS) group - have now been identified, the government says. Mr Molins said the police operation in Saint Denis had foiled a new attack, stopping a "new terrorist cell" that appeared to be ready to strike."At this time, I'm not in a position to give a precise and definitive number for the people who died, nor their identities, but there are at least two dead people," he added. Details he gave of the operation in Saint Denis paint a picture of a ferocious battleHowever, Salah Abdeslam, a 26-year-old French national identified as a suspect in Friday's attacks, was not among them, he said - nor was Abdelhamid Abaaoud. Also on Wednesday, a teacher at a Jewish school in the southern city of Marseille was stabbed by three men. Police say his life is not in danger and that the assailants are being hunted.04:20 (03:20 GMT) Shots ring out in the Rue du Corbillon, a few minutes' walk from the town hall of this rundown suburb of Paris, as anti-terrorist police raid a third-floor flat07:03 Shooting continues intermittently - at least one person killed inside the flat and two police officers injured07:40 Local residents urged to stay indoors by the authorities07:56 Police sources report two deaths in the flat, including that of a woman who set off a bomb belt, and three more officers injured09:17 Prosecutors announce the arrest of three men inside the flat, and a man and a woman nearby19:10 Paris prosecutor confirms arrests and says evidence suggests a new terrorist plot was foiled. Special report: In-depth coverage of the attacks and their aftermathFive members of the Raid police anti-terrorism unit were lightly injured in the Saint-Denis operation while a Raid "assault dog", a seven-year-old Belgian Shepherd called Diesel, was killed. More than 400 people were wounded in Friday's attacks. Three of them are in a life-threatening condition. IS said it had carried out the attacks in response to France's air campaign against its leadership in Syria, and pledged further bloodshed. French President Francois Hollande said on Wednesday that IS threatened the whole world and he would be seeking a "large coalition" to work together to defeat the militant group. IS is a notoriously violent Islamist group which controls large parts of Syria and Iraq. It has declared its territory a caliphate - a state governed in accordance with Islamic law - under its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. IS demands allegiance from all Muslims, rejects national borders and seeks to expand its territory. It follows its own extreme version of Sunni Islam and regards non-believers as deserving of death. IS projects a powerful image, partly through propaganda and sheer brutality, and is the world's richest insurgent group. It has about 30,000 fighters but is facing daily bombing by a US-led multi-national coalition, which has vowed to destroy it. Are you in the area? Have you been affected by what has been happening? Do you have any information you can share? If it is safe to do so, you can get in touch by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.ukPlease include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:
Obama declared ISIS 'contained' day before Paris attackWashington (CNN) On Thursday, President Barack Obama declared in an interview that ISIS had been "contained," asserting that the terror cell had been stalled in Iraq and Syria. The next day, ISIS claimed responsibility for one of the worst terror attacks in European history, shattering what had been a growing sense of momentum in the global fight against extremists and driving home the frightening ability of ISIS to inspire and possibly coordinate attacks outside their power base in Iraq and in Syria."We, including the President, have said from beginning the fight against ISIL would be long and have both good and bad days," according to a senior administration official pressed to explain the apparent disconnect between Obama's comments and the spectacular set of coordinated attacks that stunned Europe and killed more than 120 people out on a Paris Friday night. President Obama said ISIS was "contained" before Paris attackPresident Obama said ISIS was "contained" before Paris attack 01:08President Obama said ISIS was "contained" before Paris attackIt is not yet clear who exactly perpetrated the Paris attacks, but the French government has blamed ISIS and U. S. officials have said there is no reason to doubt that assertion. The stated goal of the U. S. had been to decapitate ISIS, but the group, claiming credit for the attacks in Paris, has shown that containment and decapitation clearly don't work against an organization that courts death and is atomized to the point individuals or small groups can act largely on their own. ISIS has quickly matured during the Obama administration from a group the President once called al Qaeda's "JV team" to a terrifying threat to the West. It's a threat the U. S. and Europe clearly do not yet fully understand. Before the attack, Obama spoke reassuringly about the growth of ISIS in the MIddle East, suggesting that while the terror group had not been beaten, it had been controlled."We have not yet been able to ... completely decapitate their command and control structures," he told ABC News. But he touted success in "trying to reduce the flow of foreign fighters."The administration says when he declared ISIS contained, Obama was speaking only about efforts to help Iraqi and Kurdish forces and U. S. bombing efforts in Syria. Recent wins against the group seemed to back up Obama's assertion: Kurdish forces retook Sinjar Mountain in Iraq with the help of U. S. airpower late this week. A drone strike announced late Thursday is suspected to have killed "Jihadi John," the ISIS executioner, a symbolic victory after Americans and others were killed on camera and used in propaganda videos. And overall, ISIS' capture of ground has slowed."It means exactly what he said," the senior administration official said, referring to the President's containment comments. "Their (ISIS) momentum in terms of territorial gains in Iraq and Syria has been contained/halted."Even before Obama's "contained" comment regarding ISIS in Iraq and Syria, the group's influence beyond those countries' borders was on full display as ISIS claimed responsibility for attacks in Beirut and the downing of a Russian passenger plane in Sinai. Santorum: People are dying because Obama 'refuses to face the truth'The Paris attack further throws U. S. and Western counterterror efforts on their head. A White House official told CNN that before departing for a trip to Turkey and Asia and a G20 Summit, the President will "convene his National Security Council to review the latest intelligence surrounding the attacks in Paris."U. S. officials have deferred to the French investigation."At this early stage, we have seen nothing that contradicts President Hollande's assessment of the situation," according to a senior U. S. intelligence official, referring to the French casting blame on ISIS."This is a French counterterrorism investigation and we are working with French officials to provide any assistance they may need," according to the official. "When they are able to share information and we, in turn, are able to share public details, we will do so."But the event is sure to cause reassessments of strategies in the U. S. and Europe, both inside their countries and for how to deal with ISIS in the Middle East. Control by ISIS of territory in Iraq and Syria versus the ability to project attacks outside of its base are, of course, separate issues. U. S. counterterrorism officials worried the latter would be the second phase the ISIS fight. While ISIS was gaining and solidifying control of territory, external attacks weren't its priority. But the concern among counterterror officials was that once the U. S. and others began attacking to curb the territorial expansion, or even causing some retreat, ISIS would start sending back its legions of westerners or try to infiltrate fighters to conduct attacks. U. S. counterterrorism officials expected that Europe, particularly countries with big foreign-fighter numbers, would be first to feel this. The battle against ISIS was already slated to occupy large portions of the agenda of the large meeting of global leaders in Turkey that Obama is set to attend. White House officials, speaking before the Paris attack, said Obama was eager to shore up the global coalition of nations that have joined to battle the group. Now those discussions will assume an even greater urgency. Obama was originally planning to speak with French President Francois Hollande at the G20 gathering, but Hollande said Friday he was canceling his trip to Turkey. That leaves other key players, including Obama, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister David Cameron, to develop a response plan at the summit, being held at a resort on the Turkish Riviera. Leaders were already scheduled to meet for a working dinner focused on combating ISIS on Sunday, and Obama will meet with the leaders five major European allies Monday afternoon. Obama will also encounter Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose recent efforts in Syria forced the administration to retool its strategy. While no formal meeting between the two men is planned, Obama's aides said there's ample opportunity for a talk. Opinion: The real enemy we are facingThe January attack by Islamic extremists against the French humor magazine Charlie Hebdo prompted a reckoning in Europe about the flow of foreign fighters onto the continent, and the pervasive appeal of Islamic extremism on disillusioned youth. At least one of the Charlie Hebdo attackers pledged allegiance to ISIS online, though none were known to be operating under direct orders from the group's leadership. In the aftermath of the attacks, Obama convened a summit in Washington aimed at countering violent extremism. The gathering was long-delayed from the fall, and finally placed on the schedule as a response to the Paris violence. Officials said at the time he wanted to collect knowledge on how best to identify and counter violent extremists in the U. S. and abroad -- but refused to identify Islamic extremism as the primary focus of the gathering."I don't quibble with labels. I think we all recognize that this is a particular problem that has roots in Muslim communities," Obama told CNN's Fareed Zakaria in a January interview. "But I think we do ourselves a disservice in this fight if we are not taking into account the fact that the overwhelming majority of Muslims reject this ideology."Is ISIS moving into the realm of international terrorism?Earlier in the year, Obama chaired a session of the United Nations Security Council meant to address the flow of foreign fighters coming from Syria, following up on the meeting during this year's general assembly by saying he wanted to focus on the origins of extremism. But even with those efforts in place, Obama's aides admit there's no quick solution to the pervasive problems facing Europe and the United States."It is not about a single meeting or a single event," Obama's National Security Adviser Susan Rice said ahead of the President's trip to the G20. "These issues are hugely complex and fraught. If they weren't, they would have been resolved a long time ago."
​Supporting France, Obama Loath to Add Troops to ISIS FightANTALYA, Turkey — For President Obama, the short-term response to the terrorist attacks in Paris was straightforward and relatively easy: The American military and intelligence agencies provided information to help French warplanes bomb Islamic State targets on Sunday in the group’s stronghold in northern Syria. Determining the long-term response, however, may be exponentially harder. Even as Mr. Obama searched for ways to step up the war against the terrorist group, which has expanded its operations beyond its territory in Iraq and Syria, senior White House officials on Sunday again ruled out the introduction of substantial numbers of American ground troops. The French airstrikes may have been a potent show of defiance, but it was not clear that they represented a major shift in the American coalition’s overall strategy. Before the attacks in Paris on Friday, the French confined the majority of their airstrikes against the Islamic State to targets in Iraq. With the strikes on Sunday, President François Hollande, who called the Paris attacks an “act of war” and vowed to be “merciless” against those responsible, made it clear that he would no longer be deterred by the border between Iraq and Syria. But the Americans have been bombing on both sides of the border for more than a year with mixed results, and the recent entry of Russia, with its own air power, into Syria has not changed the overall picture. The emotional statements from France appeared to do little to fundamentally change Mr. Obama’s view of the high cost of drastically expanding the American role in Iraq and Syria. And so, senior administration officials said, Mr. Obama is looking to do more of what he has already been doing and to do it better. The possibilities, they said, include more airstrikes, Special Operations raids, assistance to local allies and attacks against Islamic State targets outside Syria and Iraq, like the strike in Libya over the weekend.“We don’t believe U. S. troops are the answer to the problem,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser, told reporters on Sunday at the Group of 20 meetings here in Turkey, where Mr. Obama consulted with other world leaders. “The further introduction of U. S. troops to fully re-engage in ground combat in the Middle East is not the way to deal with this challenge.”The summit meeting here came less than 48 hours after gunmen and suicide bombers killed at least 129 people in simultaneous attacks across Paris, even as other challenges roiled international relations. Given its setting, just a few hundred miles from Syria, the meeting was already likely to focus on the Islamic State as well as the related refugee crisis that has engulfed Europe. Moreover, Mr. Obama was still grappling with Russia’s intervention in Ukraine and keeping an eye on the South China Sea, where China maritime claims put it at odds with its neighbors. The Paris attacks clearly upended not only the summit meeting but also the administration’s view of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or Daesh, and the range of its threat. A day before the attacks in the French capital, Mr. Obama said in a TV interview that the Islamic State had been contained in Iraq and Syria. At a meeting with his national security team on Saturday before leaving for Turkey, Mr. Obama gave orders to the nation’s intelligence agencies to overhaul their assessment of the group, given the attacks.“This was a game changer,” said a senior intelligence official who, like other American officials, requested anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. “We have to look hard at what happened in Paris, at the trajectory of the group and the potential threat it poses to the entire international community.”Intelligence analysts working over the weekend had already put aside Mr. Obama’s comment about the Islamic State being contained.“This clearly shows ISIS is looking at an international level and is capable of carrying out large-scale attacks outside Iraq and Syria,” the intelligence official said. “There will be a greater sense of urgency in how we go about trying to combat these kinds of attacks. Paris shows that they can attack soft targets on any day, anywhere, including in any major American city.”Under fire back home over the “contained” comment, White House officials rejected any suggestion that the administration had underestimated the threat posed by the Islamic State and said the president had been referring to success in halting territorial gains in Iraq and Syria.“A year ago, we saw them on the march in both Iraq and Syria, taking more and more population centers,” Mr. Rhodes said on “This Week” on ABC. “The fact is, we have been able to stop that geographic advance and take back significant amounts of territory in both northern Iraq and northern Syria.”In his only public comments here on Sunday, Mr. Obama vowed to stand with France, calling the massacre in Paris “an attack on the civilized world.”White House officials said Mr. Obama agreed with Mr. Hollande that the killings in Paris were an “act of war,” and they promised that the United States would deepen cooperation with French officials. Mr. Rhodes said a French two-star general was now stationed in the headquarters of United States Central Command, which is coordinating the American airstrikes in Syria and Iraq. But officials were less clear about how far that cooperation would go. And while no one in the French government has yet said that France will take the next logical step and ask other NATO members to defend it under Article 5 of the NATO treaty, many experts on international security talked about the need for joint action. Mr. Hollande’s use of the phrase “act of war” complicated Mr. Obama’s deliberations. Aides said the president had discussed the need for more cooperation with the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, especially along Turkey’s border with Syria. And the last-minute addition of a meeting here between Mr. Obama and King Salman of Saudi Arabia was described as an effort to urge more support from the Saudis. Mr. Obama also met with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, again broaching their longstanding disagreement about how to confront the Islamic State and resolve the civil war in Syria. The two spoke for 35 minutes at a reception, their first meeting since Russian planes began bombing targets inside Syria in an effort to bolster the government of President Bashar al-Assad, who Mr. Obama has said must step down. American officials described the meeting as “constructive,” emphasizing that the two leaders agreed on the need for a cease-fire in Syria and a political transition to a new government. But Russian officials described the meeting in less glowing terms, saying that Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin remained at odds about how to achieve those goals.“On tactics, the two sides are still diverging,” Yuri Ushakov, Mr. Putin’s foreign policy adviser, told reporters. The intricate diplomatic picture complicated the administration’s options. With Russia and Iran also fighting the Islamic State but having different regional interests from the United States, American officials said they wanted to be sure that military action did not impair the shared diplomatic goal of ending the violence in Syria. Secretary of State John Kerry was in Vienna over the weekend seeking a consensus to try to stop the Syrian civil war, which helped give rise to the Islamic State.“It’s a matter of making sure it’s all been thought out,” a senior Defense Department official said. “If it looks like a shift in our posture would be beneficial in terms of diplomacy, or would have a negative impact, that is something that the administration wants to consider.”While the White House tried to distance itself from the idea of containment, a senior administration official said, “What we had in essence was a containment policy” based on the belief that efforts to counter the Islamic State’s ideology had to be led by Sunni Muslim states, with backup from the United States. Yet Mr. Obama’s strategy was also based on intelligence assessments that the Islamic State was overextended and vulnerable to a cutoff in its oil and black-market revenues — and that, in the long war against extremism, there was still time to bolster the most capable local forces and bring Arab states to the fight.“If Paris changes anything,” an American official said, “it’s the recognition that we can’t wait for those two events to happen, if they ever happen.”
Obama at G-20: US to 'Redouble' IS Fight After Paris AttacksU. S. President Barack Obama has vowed to help France in “hunting down the perpetrators” of Friday's Paris attacks and said he plans to "redouble" efforts to eliminate the Islamic State group, known in Arabic as Daesh. Obama spoke on Sunday after meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at start of the G-20 summit in the Turkish Mediterranean resort of Antalya.“We will redouble our efforts working with other members of the coalition to bring about a peaceful transition in Syria and to eliminate Daesh as a force that can create so much pain and suffering for people in Paris and Ankara and other parts of the globe," Obama said. Obama pledged solidarity with France and condemned the coordinated attacks Friday night in the French capital."The killing of innocent people, based on a twisted ideology, is an attack not just on France, not just on Turkey, but it's an attack on the civilized world," he said, also referring to the twin bombings at a leftist rally in Ankara last month that killed well over 100 people. Islamic State militants claimed responsibility for the attacks both in Paris and Ankara. Friday’s attacks in Paris topped the agenda on the first day of talks among leaders of the world’s 20 biggest economies, which were meant to focus on trade, energy and climate change.  G-20 leaders held a moment of silence for the victim's of the attacks. The issues on the formal agenda took second stage behind the need to step up the fight against Islamic State terroristsThe Paris attacks were also expected to push along and consolidate efforts to resolve the conflict in Syria. Hours before the assaults happened, National Security Advisor Susan Rice on Friday said the G-20 would be a “useful opportunity” for key leaders to concert efforts on Syria. But she cautioned against expectations for any breakthroughs and said the aim was to use the G-20 venue to make “incremental progress.”Just before departing the White House, President Obama met with his national security team and got an intelligence assessment. Analysts say Obama is compelled to step up the campaign against the Islamic State group and the two-day summit provides a chance for him to huddle with leaders of other nations who are also battling the group. A number of G-20 nations are taking part in the fight against IS and discussions on the matter were expected to take place during the two-day meeting. French President Francois Hollande canceled his plans to attend the meeting immediately after Friday’s attacks. Obama, Putin MeetOn the sidelines of the summit, Obama had a "constructive discussion" Sunday with Russian President Vladimir Putin about Syria, according to a White House official."The conversation lasted approximately 35 minutes and centered around ongoing efforts to resolve the conflict in Syria, an imperative made all the more urgent by the horrifying terrorist attacks in Paris," the official said. The two sides have a complicated relationship in regards to Syria, with Moscow continuing to support the government of Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad while Washington calls for Assad to leave power. Analysts say the attacks in Paris opened a new opportunity for the two sides to work in a common effort against the IS militants. A meeting of foreign ministers in Vienna ahead of the G-20 appeared to set the stage for new cooperation despite differences. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, at a joint news conference Saturday, said the U. N. has agreed to bring Syrian government and the opposition together at a meeting and a ceasefire is expected within six months. The coordinated attacks in Paris show that “it doesn’t matter if you’re for Assad or against him,” said Lavrov. “ISIS is your enemy.”Turkey's roleOne of President Obama’s first meetings in Antalya was with his Turkish counterpart, a key partner in the fight against the Islamic State terrorists. For months, Turkish security have been stepping up their raids against what officials say are Islamic State cells, mainly in the southeast of Turkey near Turkey’s borders with Syria and Iraq. The Turkish government was at first reluctant to participate in U. S.-led efforts against the militants, but has since allowed the U. S. to launch attacks from bases in Turkey and has carried out bombing campaigns of its own. The G-20 summit took place amid high security, with 12,000 Turkish soldiers and police deployed around the resort as leaders and top officials of the G-20 and other nations arrived, along with 3,000 journalists. Turkish military officials said they had put in place a 24-hour air defense system over the area during the two-day meeting.
Obama says twisted ideology behind attack on civilized worldANTALYA, Turkey — President Barack Obama pledged Sunday to redouble U. S. efforts eliminate the Islamic State and end the Syrian civil war that has fueled its rise, denouncing the extremist group’s horrifying terror spree in Paris as “an attack on the civilized world.”Opening two days of talks with world leaders in Turkey, Obama pledging U. S. solidarity with France in the effort to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to justice. He said “the skies have been darkened” by the horrifying terror spree, but offered no details about what the U. S. or its coalition partners might do to step up its assault against the extremist group.“The killing of innocent people, based on a twisted ideology, is an attack not just on France, not just on Turkey, but it’s an attack on the civilized world,” Obama said after meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In addition to the Paris attacks, IS is blamed for two bombings in Turkey this year that killed about 130 people. The specter of the Islamic State threat and Syria’s civil war hanged over the Turkish seaside city of Antalya as Obama and other leaders descended for the Group of 20 summit of leading rich and developing nations. Although the overlapping crises were already on the lineup for the two days of talks, they were thrust to the forefront by elaborately coordinated attacks that killed 129 in the French capital just two days earlier, in the most destructive attack in the West blamed on the extremist group. World leaders gathering for the G-20 are looking to answer a critical question: Beyond tough talk, how will the world respond to bloodshed now extending far beyond the Islamic State group’s foothold in the Middle East? Leaders in Europe, the U. S. and beyond have pledged to step up the response, with French President Francois Hollande vowing a “merciless” war on the Islamic State. Yet despite plenty of tough talk, there were few signs of an emerging consensus about exactly what that means. Asked by reporters whether he would consider additional action against IS following the Paris attacks, Obama declined to tip his hand. Obama’s meeting with Erdogan came at the start of a 9-day trip to Turkey, the Philippines and Malaysia that has already been largely overshadowed by Friday’s attacks in Paris and the related issues of Syria’s civil war and the resulting migrant crisis. Obama said the U. S. stands with Turkey and Europe in the effort to reduce the flow of migrants, and Erdogan predicted a “strong message” on fighting terrorism would result from the summit.
Paris attack: Video shows moment gunmen started firing at Eagles of Death Metal Bataclan concertVideo has emerged of the terrifying moment gunmen opened fire on the Bataclan concert hall in an attack that left 89 people dead. Posted to Instagram by Sebastien Snow, the footage shows the Eagles of Death Metal apparently reaching the end of a song as the crackle of gunfire breaks out. The drummer is seen ducking down as a guitarist appears to duck before quickly leaving the stage - while another guitarist stays rooted to the spot. Mr Snow's post alongside the video reads: “The last notes before the gunfire, panic and horror”. At least three gunmen opened fire at the venue in Paris’ 11th district as 1,500 watched the sell-out show. The attackers held those present hostage for around three hours until armed police stormed the concert hall. According to the Paris prosecutor's office, two attackers blew themselves up with suicide belts as police closed in, while a third attacker was killed by security forces. A total of 89 people were killed at the venue, making it the most deadly of the series of attacks across the French capital - which have left a total of at least 129 people dead and injured at least 180 in bars, restaurants and a football stadium. One British man, named as Nick Alexander who was selling merchandise at the concert, is among those who died. It comes just 10 months after the attacks on satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris, which left 20 people dead, including the attackers. Friday's series of attacks are France's deadliest since the Second World War and the worst in Europe since the 2004 Madrid bombings.
Paris attacks: Eagles of Death Metal band mates suffered no fatalitiesUpdate: The members of band Eagles of Death Metal survived the terrorist attack on the Bataclan theatre where they were due to perform on Friday night, and where at least 100 people were killed in a terrorist attack. Although the management for the American band posted a statement saying they were "trying to determine the safety and whereabouts" of the band and its crew, a US official has confirmed to the Associated Press that all of the band's members were safe and accounted for. We are still currently trying to determine the safety and whereabouts of all our band and crew. Our thoughts are with all of the people involved in this tragic situation. A source close to the band told The Los Angeles Times that, although the band's members were unharmed, one person working with the band was killed and another was wounded in the attack. Eagles of Death Metal's family members also confirmed their wellbeing. Julian Dorio, the band's drummer, called his wife Emily "to say that he loved me and he was safe. Everyone on stage was able to get off," she told The Washington Post. Dorio's brother Michael added that Julian had told him that the attack happened "about six songs into the show, and they heard automatic machine gunfire. And it was so loud, it was louder than the band, and they all hit the stage floor.”"And as they got up to try to evacuate they saw men with machine guns just shooting anything and everything in the venue", Michael Dorio told US broadcaster WSB-TV. The American rock band was supposed to perform at the Bataclan, a theatre located in eastern Paris near the trendy Oberkampf area. People inside were taken hostage. It was unclear how many were inside but French police say at least 100 people were killed. The death toll is in addition to the 35 people who died in shootings and explosions in multiple sites in the city Friday night."We are still currently trying to determine the safety and whereabouts of all our band and crew. Our thoughts are with all of the people involved in this tragic situation," management for Eagles of Death Metal posted on the band's Facebook page late Friday. The Atlanta Journal Constitution, quoting the brother of the band's drummer, reported on Friday night that all band members escaped the concert hall unharmed. The paper identified the drummer as Atlanta native Julian Dorio."They saw a man with a machine gun just opening fire," Dorio's brother Michael Dorio told the newspaper. Michael Dorio said his brother told him band members hit the floor when they spotted the gunmen, then ran out a backstage door. They dashed to a nearby police station, where Julian Dorio borrowed someone's mobile phone to call his family in Atlanta, Michael Dorio said. The band, formed in 1998 in Palm Desert, California, was celebrating the October release of "Zipper Down" with a European tour. It's their first album in seven years. The AJC said Julian Dorio is not a full-time member of the band but had joined it on a European tour. Josh Homme - the frontman and founder of Queens of the Stone Age - formed Eagles of Death Metal with his best friend, Jesse Hughes. Though their name is Eagles of Death Metal, the band's sound is a mix of blues rock and garage rock. Their website lists about two dozen dates planned for the year, including stops in Munich, Stockholm, Rome and Barcelona. In an interview in June with The Associated Press, the band spoke excitedly about releasing new music and heading on tour."You know, I'm telling you the truth, but this is the coolest job in the world," Hughes said, sitting next to Homme. "Right now I'm sitting in an interview with my best friend in London at Koko's Ballroom talking about myself. It doesn't really get much better than this!"
Paris attack sees 129 dead after Eagles of Death Metal concert hostages are killedTwo British students have described the moment they were forced to crawl over other victims to safety as three teams of masked gunmen massacred 118 people at the Bataclan concert hall. Hanna Corbett and Jack Konda, both 21, were watching Eagles of Death Metal perform in Paris last night when terrorists targeted the 1,500-capacity venue as part of a series of coordinated terror attacks. Miss Corbett, from Lenton, Nottinghamshire, said they dropped to the floor along with the rest of the crowd. She described the pair's escape as a 'nightmare' and said she initially thought the gunmen were part of the show. She said: 'It was towards the end of the gig and we heard what sounded like firecrackers or fireworks. Everyone thought it was part of the show but then I saw the lead singer's face drop before he ran off stage and the lights came on. We all just dropped to the floor. We were to the left of the stage in the main standing area and quite near the fire exit. Some managed to crawl out but there was just a pile of people by the fire exit. We didn't know what we were crawling over.'Then when we got out there were just people running for their lives. It was quite disturbing.'The news comes as a London-educated lawyer and an American design student have been named as two of the victims killed in last night. Valentin Ribet studied at Business law at the London School of Economics (LSE) and had been working in the Paris offfice of an an international law firm. Nohemi Gonzalez, 23, a design student from California State University-Long Beach, was studying at the Strate College of Design in Paris as part of her semester abroad when she was killed in one of the restaurant attacks last night. Three other Americans were also injured in the attacks in Paris last night, a US official confirmed. Mr Ribet, 26, was described as a 'talented lawyer' by his employers at Hogan Lovells, who paid tribute to the young man confirmed as one of the 80 people feared dead after gunmen opened fire into the crowd at the concert hall in Paris. A company spokesman said: 'Hogan Lovells is greatly saddened by the loss of Valentin Ribet. Valentin was at the Bataclan concert hall on Friday night and he was killed in the attack that took place there.'This is an awful tragedy and hard for any of us to truly comprehend. We are shocked by both our loss and the wider events in the city.'Valentin worked in the litigation team, specialising in white collar crime. He was a talented lawyer, extremely well liked, and a wonderful personality in the office. He was 26,' the spokesman said.'Our thoughts at this time are with Valentin and his family as well as with his colleagues in the office and across the firm.'LSE also posted a tribute to Mr Ribet on Twitter in white writing laid over a peace sign incorporating the Eiffel tower. The university wrote: 'We have learned of some very sad news from our LSE alumni community, following the attacks in Paris.'Valentin Ribet, a graduate of the LLM in international business law (2014), who had been working in Paris, has passed away.'Our hearts are filled with sadness at this news.'James Walters, chaplain and interfaith adviser at LSE, posted online: 'Praying for the repose of the soul of Valentin Ribet. Love is stronger than hate. Life is stronger than death.'An American national has also been named as one of the victims in the one of the restaurant attacks in Paris. Nohemi Gonzalez, 23, a design student from California State University-Long Beach, was studying at the Strate College of Design in Paris as part of her semester abroad.'I'm deeply saddened by the news of the passing of Long Beach State University student Nohemi Gonzalez,' Long Beach State President Jane Close Conoley said.'Our thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends during this sad time,'Our university stands with our nearly eighty foreign exchange students from France as they struggle with this tragedy.'We will extend all support necessary to comfort them. We will also extend support to all students, faculty and staff who are in need,' she said. The White House has released a statement this evening, revealing that there is 'no specific or credible threat' faced by America following the horrific attacks in Paris last night. It also confirmed that no new evidence had emerged to contradict France's claims that ISIS was responsible for the attacks. Distraught family and friends have launched a desperate search for loved ones feared dead in the ISIS Paris massacre as Francois Hollande vowed to strike back against the jihadi 'barbarians'. At least 129 people have killed and more than 352 taken to hospital after eight militants carried out a series of co-ordinated attacks across the French capital. Two of the gunmen travelled via Greece through migrant route to carry out deadly attacks in FranceOne of the gunmen has been identified as Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, a 29-year-old who lived in Chartres, southwest of Paris. Fresh details have become to emerge of the identities of the eight terrorists who carried out the deadly attacks in Paris last night. One of the gunmen is believed to have been a 25-year-old Syrian national, who was registered as a migrant when he entered Europe via Greece. A second gunman is thought to have followed the same route and used the migrant crossing route through Greece to reach France. The family of one of the bombers have reportedly been detained by police following a raid on their house this evening. One of the other gunmen has been identified as a French-born national, who was known to security services, according to Francois Molins, Paris prosecutor. The same gunman was also reportedly arrested eight times before he was radicalised, the French prosecutor confirmed. The attackers in Friday night's coordinated, deadly assaults used the explosive TATP, which has been called the 'mother of Satan' because of its volatility, the Paris prosecutor confirmed. TATP, or triacetone triperoxide, is an improvised explosive that also was used in the 2005 London bombings that killed 52 commuters. The counterterrorism center's website describes the explosive as a mixture of 'hydrogen peroxide and acetone with the addition of an acid, such as sulfuric, nitric, or hydrochloric acid.'On Friday night, three suicide bombs targeted spots around the Stade de France stadium, where French President Francois Hollande was watching a France-Germany soccer match. Another attacker detonated a suicide bomb on Boulevard Voltaire, near the Bataclan music hall where dozens of people were killed by gunmen, the prosecutor's office said. The streets of the French capital were eerily quiet today as authorities declared a state of national emergency following the worst attacks in Europe since the 2004 Madrid train bombings. As chaos, confusion and fear gripped the city, parents have been taking to Twitter in the hope of finding news of their missing children while mourners across Paris and the world held vigils for the dead. Many have shared pictures and information about their loved ones with the hashtag 'RechercheParis' – which means 'search Paris' – and it has now spawned its own Twitter accounts and Facebook page. Many of those missing were at the Bataclan concert hall last night, where as many as 80 people were shot dead during a heavy metal gig. In a televised address, the French President said the attacks were 'committed by a terrorist army, the Islamic State group, a jihadist army, against France, against the values that we defend everywhere in the world, against what we are: a free country that means something to the whole planet'. ISIS later claimed responsibility for the attacks in revenge for French air strikes in Iraq and Syria and warned: 'This is just the start of a storm'. It was also reported that one of the suicide bombers was found with a Syrian passport. Police are also hunting accomplices amid fears of further attacks, with the arrest of a 51-year-old man in Germany last week after firearms were discovered in his car now being linked to the atrocities, according to media reports. Police are also reportedly chasing a car containing four 'heavily armed men' who stormed through a police road block as they headed towards Paris. Officers are said to be in pursuit of a Citroën Berlingo after it forced its way through a toll on the A10 in the Ablis area of Yvelines in north-west France. In an indication of the heightened state of alert, it was earlier reported that armed officers and a police helicopter were scrambled to the Bagnolet area of Paris following reports of gunfire and explosions. Residents were reportedly told to stay indoors but local authorities later confirmed the 'explosions' were the result of fireworks being let off at a wedding celebration. How the suicide bombers executed hostages before blowing themselves up as police raided Bataclan theatreArmed with AK47 machine guns and shouting 'Allahu Akbar', four of the group marched into a rock concert at the Bataclan theatre, massacring up to 100 people and taking dozens hostage. Video footage emerged of the stampede into a street behind the theatre shows concert-goers leaving a trail of blood as they drag their dying friends from the scene. One woman clung desperately to the window ledge of the second floor as she tried to hide from the terrorists. Meanwhile, bodies lie by the entrance – all apparently dead, before one moves and attempts to stand. Bleeding heavily, and unable to lift themselves, the camera captures the moment they try to use their phone – possibly to call for help. The video was taken by Le Monde journalist Daniel Psenny from his flat in a building opposite. He was later injured himself, shot in the arm through his window. Witnesses have told of the horror which unfolded inside the Bataclan theatre, where more than 1,000 people were watching rock band Eagles of Death Metal perform.'It looked like a battlefield, there was blood everywhere, there were bodies everywhere,' Marc Coupris, 57, told the Guardian. He added: 'I was at the far side of the hall when shooting began. There seemed to be at least two gunmen. They shot from the balcony.'They shot at 'very young' people in the violent attack which lasted around 15 minutes, said Julien Pearce, a journalist at Europe 1. The gunmen, who witnesses have described as young men in theirs 20s, reloaded three or four times as they gunned down innocent people at random.'They fired into the crowd and people tried to escape but the attackers said: 'If you move, we'll kill you,'' said Philippe, 35. He heard the attackers say: 'What's happening to you, is your fault. We are avenging our brothers in Syria.''Three men with Kalashnikovs and wearing flak jackets burst in in the middle of the concert,' another man, a man named Hervé, told the Telegraph after escaping through an emergency exit. He said the men were not wearing masks, adding: 'They just started spraying bullets. I saw a girl hit right in front of me. There must have been quite a few dead.'Another witness, Pierre Janaszak, a radio presenter, told AFP he was sitting in the balconies with his sister and friends, when they heard shots from below about one hour into the show.'At first, we thought it was part of the show but we quickly understood. They were three I think and they were just firing into the crowd. They were armed with big guns, I imagine Kalashnikovs, it was a hell of a noise. They didn't stop firing.'There was blood everywhere, corpses everywhere. We heard screaming. Everyone was trying to flee. They had 20 hostages, and we could hear them talking with them,' said Janaszak, who was hiding with several others in the toilet.'I clearly heard them say 'It's the fault of Hollande, it's the fault of your president, he should not have intervened in Syria'. They also spoke about Iraq.'Is this video footage of the ISIS killer stalking the Bataclan venue before his brutal rampage begins?One of the four gunmen who went on a murderous rampage through a Paris theatre may have been caught on camera moments before they opened fire, killing more than 80 innocent people. The footage, captured by Tuesday Cross, girlfriend of Eagles of Death Metal frontman Jesse Hughes, shows a figure dressed head to toe in black with a backpack, making their way through the corridors of the Bataclan concert hall. Moments later, gunmen shouting 'Allahu Akbar' - God is great in Arabic - began indiscriminately killing those who had crammed into the venue to see the band perform. This figure is thought to be one of the gunmen, filmed in a corridor of the Batalcan theatre shortly before he began killing concert-goersFanatics later attacked Cambodian restaurant Le Petit Cambodge and the bar-cafe Le Carillon on Rue Alibert around five miles away. According to a woman who was in the Cambodian restaurant, a gunman shouted 'Allahu Akbar' (God is great in Arabic) before firing. French prosecutors say 14 were killed and several critically injured. Eyewitnesses reported hearing a sound like fireworks before they realised the gravity of the situation and desperately tried to flee or hide. Another gun attack happened at la Casa Nostra in Rue de la Fontaine au Roi and nearby bar La Bonne Biere in Rue du Faubourg de Temple with eyewitnesses reporting seeing five bodies. Another witness said he saw shots being fired from a Ford Focus. Meanwhile the sidewalk terrace of La Belle Equipe on Rue de Charonne was showered in gunfire, killing as many as 18 people. There were reports that a Japanese restaurant on the road was also targeted. Some 1,500 extra soldiers have been mobilised to guard French facilities while schools and universities were closed. British Prime Minister David Cameron said he would review national security after talks with key ministers at Downing Street.'We must be prepared for a number of British casualties,' he said after an emergency cabinet meeting in Downing Street that kept the threat level for Britain at 'severe' - the second highest attacks. In a message of solidarity to the people of France, he added: 'Your values are our values, your pain is our pain, your fight is our fight.'Similar meetings were being held by governments across Europe, including in Austria, Germany, Italy and Spain. The Queen sent her condolences to the French people in a message to the president, telling Mr Hollande that she and the Duke of Edinburgh were 'deeply shocked and saddened by the terrible loss of life'. The Prince of Wales has condemned the Paris terrorist atrocities as 'bestial attacks' and said he wanted to express his 'utter, total horror' at what had happened. Hospitals appeared so overwhelmed, a junior doctor called on other medical staff to offer assistance in a number of location across Paris amid reports as many as 180 people had been wounded. They tweeted: 'Present yourself to your nearest hospital and help in any way you can. If you are not needed at your local hospital, the following hospitals are in need of help: Bichat, Pitié Salpêtrière, HEGP, Lariboisière.'French President Francois Hollande declared a national state of emergency following what he called 'unprecedented terror attacks', reinstating border checks and deployed 1,500 extra troops to the capital. Initially it had been reported that France had closed its borders. The terrifying moment one of the suicide bomber tried to enter the Stade de FranceAt least one of the suicide bombers tried to enter the Stade de France but was stopped by security and detonated their explosive belt. A security guard, known only as Zouheir confirmed that the bomber had a ticket for the international friendly game at the Stade de France but security guards discovered his suicide vest. Shortly after the bomber blew himself up, two explosions in a bar near the Stade de France stadium when two other bombers detonated their devices. A witness said the explosions were loud enough to be heard over the sound of cheering fans. Sirens were heard immediately and a helicopter was seen circling overhead. A 27-year-old man, who was just 30ft from the explosion, said he felt like he was 'in a video game'. Speaking to the Daily Mail, he said: 'There was an explosion in front of us. It was a very loud noise. At first I thought it was a bin that had been set alight. But then I thought it wasn't a fire cracker.'Everyone stopped. A man was on the floor screaming. I don't know what happened to the man. I just heard him scream and move around the floor. He wasn't unconscious.'As he approached the stadium door around three minutes later, a second bomb went off 15ft from where he was standing. He added: 'It was a very loud noise. I've never heard anything like it. My heart jumped. There were 20 of us. We started running. The match had started 15 minutes before.'The doormen started locking the stadium doors... it was shocking to see. I thought, 'that could have been me'.'Players briefly stopped in their tracks when they heard the twin blasts. Following news of the attack, thousands of fans - too scared to leave the stadium - poured onto the pitch. Despite the terrifying explosion, the game continued before thousands of the terrified fans gathered on the pitch at the Stade de France. Shortly after the full time whistle of Friday night's friendly game against Germany, fans were evacuated as further co-ordinated terrorist attacks were being carried out in the city. The president of the French Football Federation later confirmed an explosion at Gate J of the national stadium but that the ground had been secured. The sound of two explosions had been heard in the ground during the first-half, just hours after the German team were evacuated from their hotel amid a bomb scare. Hundreds of fans banded together, distressed at their situation as French police attempted to regain control. The English FA, meanwhile, have confirmed that they will liaise with their French counterparts ahead of next Tuesday's friendly match at Wembley before any further announcements are made. Les Bleus are due to face Roy Hodgson's men, but the encounter is now under a cloud of doubt after the alarming developments in the French capital. Indeed, the prospect of the match being postponed looks likely given the horrific nature of the attacks. France's year of terror: How Charlie Hebdo massacre sparked series of extremist attacks which have brought bloodshed to countryThe horrific co-ordinated attacks carried out last night comes as the latest and most violent terrorist attack to target civilians on French soil. From the Charlie Hebdo attack to the foiled lone gunman on the Thalys train, France has been repeatedly targeted by terrorists this year. Twelve people were killed in January when two Islamic terrorists brandishing Kalashnikovs burst into the headquarters of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. Among the slain was Stephane Charbonnier, the defiant editor whose satirical newspaper dared to poke fun at everything from religion to feminism. Calmly leaving behind a scene resembling a war zone with bullet-riddled windows and the cries of the dying and wounded, the men ran on to the street outside – with the subsequent murder of an injured policeman caught on camera. Witnesses said they heard the gunmen shouting 'We have avenged the Prophet Mohammed', 'God is Great' in Arabic and boasting 'We have killed Charlie Hebdo.'The gunmen made their escape before stopping to kill the wounded officer, Ahmed Merabet, and then to hijack a car after their own vehicle was damaged in a crash. Charlie Hebdo Editor Stéphane Charbonnier – one of the victims – spoke out fiercely against political correctness, saying: 'It should be as normal to criticise Islam as it is to criticise Jews or Catholics.'The 47-year-old, who took over as editor in 2009, grew up in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine, northern France and joined Charlie Hebdo in the early 1990s as a designer. Jean 'Cabu' Cabut was another victim. The magazine's 76-year-old lead cartoonist was an almost legendary cultural figure in France. The perpetrators, brother Chérif and Saïd Kouachi, were killed by police two days after police stormed a building where they were holding a hostage. In June, a suspected Islamist beheaded his boss and tried to blow up a U. S-owned industrial gas plant in the suburbs of Lyon. Terror fears continued to dog France, with officials confirming in July that they had prevented an attack on a senior French military official by arresting four people whose leader had links to jailed jihadists. One month later, a machine gun-toting attacker wounded three people on a high-speed train in France before he was overpowered by several passengers. Ayoub el-Khazzani, who was reportedly radicalized while living in Spain, was arrested after the shooting when the Amsterdam-to-Paris train stopped at Arras station in northern France. No one was killed but several people, including the U. S. citizen and French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade were wounded in the foiled attack. PARIS ATROCITY IS LATEST IN LONG LINE OF HORRIFIC TERRORISM ATTACKS AROUND THE WORLD The terror that unfolded in Paris has been described as the worst violence to hit France since the Second World War. Terrorists have used different methods to inflict destruction around the world in recent years. Here are the most horrific attacks: On August 15, 1998, 29 victims - who included a woman pregnant with twins - died after a dissident republican car bomb detonated in Omagh town centre on a busy Saturday afternoon. It was the single bloodiest terrorist attack in the history of the Northern Ireland Troubles and came only months after the signing of the historic Good Friday Agreement. More than 200 were injured when the 500lb car bomb, planted by the Real IRA, ripped through the Co Tyrone market town. Nearly 3,000 people, including 67 Britons, were killed after Islamist extremists hijacked passenger jets and flew them into New York's World Trade Centre twin towers and the Pentagon in Washington DC on September 11, 2001. The world watched in horror as the hijacked planes emerged from a clear blue sky to strike at the heart of one of the world's greatest cities. Televised live around the globe to a shocked audience of billions, the 9/11 attacks were meticulously planned by Islamist fanatics to kill as many people and gain as much publicity as possible. A total of 202 people, including 28 Britons, were killed on October 12, 2002 and more than 204 injured when the al Qaida-linked Jemaah Islamiyah group detonated bombs at two packed Bali nightspots. During the attack three bombs detonated - a backpack carried by a suicide bomber and a car bomb which both devastated Paddy's Pub and the Sari Club opposite, followed by a third device outside the US consulate in Denpasar. Various members of Jemaah Islamiyah were convicted in relation to the bombings. Three - Imam Samudra, Amrozi Nurhasyim and Huda bin Abdul Haq - were executed by firing squad in November 2008. The whole of Spain was in mourning when more than 190 people were killed in the Madrid train bombs on March 11, 2004. The attacks took place exactly two-and-a-half years after September 11 and were Europe's worst terrorist atrocity since the 1988 Lockerbie plane bombing. London-based Arabic language Al Quds newspaper said it received an e-mail from the Brigade of Abu Hafs al-Masri, who claimed its 'death squad' had penetrated 'one of the pillars of the crusader alliance'. On July 7, 2005, 52 people were murdered and hundreds more injured when four suicide bombers attacked London's transport network. Twenty-six died in the bombing at Russell Square on the Piccadilly line, six in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle line, seven in the bombing at Aldgate on the Circle line, and 13 in the bombing on the bus at Tavistock Square. A fortnight later, another four would-be suicide bombers launched failed attacks on the Tube and a bus, leading police marksmen to kill innocent Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes. Often called India's 9/11, the Mumbai attacks in 2008 saw 10 gunmen blaze through the country's financial capital, killing more than 160 people. Indian authorities took back control of Mumbai early on the morning on November 29 after a three-day siege across the city. Security services and senior police in the UK have repeatedly highlighted the risk of a Mumbai-style roaming gun massacre, and earlier this year police carried out a simulated terror attack in the capital to test the emergency response to such a strike. Fusilier Lee Rigby, 25, from Middleton in Greater Manchester, was killed outside barracks in Woolwich, south east London, on May 22, 2013 by two Islamic extremists. The murder sparked shock across the country after the father-of-one was run over with a car and then hacked to death by British Muslim converts Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale. Following an Old Bailey trial, Adebolajo was handed a whole-life prison term and Adebowale was jailed for a minimum of 45 years. Paris was rocked by the Charlie Hebdo atrocity on January 7 this year, when 12 people were killed after gunmen stormed the offices of the satirical magazine. The sense of panic heightened when there was a subsequent attack on a Kosher supermarket, and the incidents triggered worldwide outrage. Since then there have been a number of more minor strikes or attempts in France. In one, three Americans and a Briton overpowered a heavily-armed gunman on a train from Amsterdam to Paris. Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Sousse attack in June, in which 30 Britons were among 38 tourists killed. Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on the holidaymakers on a beach in the Tunisian holiday resort. Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood has described the Sousse tragedy as the 'most significant terrorist attack' on Britons since July 7, 2005.
France Strikes ISIS Targets in Syria in Retaliation for AttacksPARIS — France bombed the Syrian city of Raqqa on Sunday night, its most aggressive strike against the Islamic State group it blames for killing 129 people in a string of terrorist attacks across Paris only two days before. President François Hollande, who vowed to be “unforgiving with the barbarians” of the Islamic State after the carnage in Paris, decided on the airstrikes in a meeting with his national security team on Saturday, officials said. While France has been conducting scores of airstrikes against the Islamic State in Iraq, it had been bombing inside Syria only sparingly, wary of inadvertently strengthening the hand of President Bashar al-Assad by killing his enemies. But after militants with AK-47 rifles and suicide explosives vests shattered the peaceful revelry of Paris on Friday night, killing dozens of civilians in restaurants and at a concert hall, France seemed intent on sending a clear message of its determination to curb the Islamic State and its ability to carry out attacks outside the territory it controls. The French Defense Ministry said in a statement that the air raid, coordinated with American forces, was led by 12 French aircraft, including 10 fighter jets, and had destroyed two Islamic State targets in Raqqa, the radical group’s self-proclaimed capital. The United States provided French officials with information to help them strike Islamic State targets in Syria, known as “strike packages,” American officials said. Initial reports from activists on the ground in Raqqa, which could not be verified independently, said that hospitals had not reported any civilian casualties. Yet they also said the targeted sites included clinics, a museum and other buildings in an urban area, leaving the full extent of the damage unknown. The French military response capped another tense day in the wake of the attacks across Paris on Friday night. The authorities hunted for an eighth suspect believed to be on the loose, while seeking to piece together how the assailants got the training, weapons and explosives they used. President Obama and other world leaders, including President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, gathered at a summit meeting in Turkey, grappling with how to respond to the Islamic State, the civil war in Syria and the mass emigration from the region toward Europe. Paris remained jittery all day, and early in the evening unfounded reports of gunfire prompted an evacuation of the Place de la République, in the heart of the city. The revelations that at least four French citizens were involved in the attacks — three brothers and a man who lived around Chartres, about 60 miles southwest of Paris — seemed certain to exacerbate longstanding fears in France about the place of Muslim immigrants and converts in French society. Even before the latest violence, the nation was still reeling from a smaller set of deadly attacks on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, at a kosher grocery and against a police officer only 10 months earlier. The French airstrikes on Raqqa began at 7:50 p.m. Paris time, first taking aim at an Islamic State “command post, jihadist recruitment center and weapons and ammunition depot,” the Defense Ministry said. The second target, it said, was a “terrorist training camp.”Warplanes continued to hover over the city close to midnight, according to residents and activist groups. Residents have seen the city bombed by Syrian, American and Russian warplanes. They have been terrorized by public executions by the Islamic State. Now they are wary of yet another power arriving to pummel the city. Khaled al-Homsi, an antigovernment activist from Palmyra, who uses a nom de guerre for his safety and is the nephew of an archaeologist who was beheaded by Islamic State fighters, issued a plea on Twitter to France, saying not all of the city’s residents were Islamic State members and urging caution for the safety of civilians.“To the people & government in #France, #Raqqa City residents are not all #ISIS,” he wrote in a post on Twitter. “Please do not targets at random.”Reports on the strikes began flowing from the Raqqa area about 9:30 p.m. local time, with activists on the ground counting six at first, the numbers mounting minute by minute. It was a heavier barrage than had typically hit the city and its environs, and it knocked out electricity and water service, spreading more fear than usual among civilians. The reports were shared by several activist networks, including Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently, an organization of current and former Raqqa residents who report on events there. The group was recently victimized by a provocative crime: the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, claimed responsibility for beheading two members of the activist group in Turkey, a move that was surprising in that it was carried out beyond the territory the Islamic State controls. The Islamic State has also claimed responsibility for the downing of a Russian passenger jetliner over Egypt, killing all 224 people aboard, intensifying concerns that the group’s reach and ambitions for sowing terror are expanding. France has been among the most outspoken opponents of Mr. Assad. In 2013, it was prepared to join the United States in attacking his government after proof emerged that he was using chemical weapons against his own people. When President Obama decided against attacking Mr. Assad, France suspended its plans. Mr. Hollande’s government began bombing Islamic State-held territory in Iraq in September 2014, and it has carried out about 280 airstrikes since then. But it had only begun to strike targets inside Syria in the last seven weeks, and had carried out fewer than a half dozen bombings there before Sunday. France has struck training camps, and just last week it attacked an oil and gas depot, according to a statement by the French Defense Ministry. Jean Yves le Drian, the French defense minister, in an interview in the Journal du Dimanche, said the oil and gas target was chosen because the Islamic State uses the black market sale of oil and gas as a way to finance its weapon acquisition. There is a growing focus on both reducing the Islamic State’s territory and its financing, said French government officials and experts.“We need to push the organization away from its territories,” said Jean Charles Brisard, a terrorism expert, who worked in the French government and now is the chairman for the Center for the Analysis of Terrorism, a Paris-based research group.“Most of its resources are from the territory, so we have to push it away from its resources in Syria and Iraq and that means going in on the ground with a regional power,” he said. The United States currently has soldiers on the ground in Iraq working with Syrian and Iraqi Kurds to dislodge the Islamic State. France has not yet said whether it will adopt a similar course. On Sunday, Mr. Hollande met his predecessor and rival, Nicolas Sarkozy, at the Élysée Palace. Afterward, Mr. Sarkozy urged decisive action against the Islamic State — a position Mr. Hollande has also taken.“We need everybody in order to exterminate Daesh,” Mr. Sarkozy told reporters, using an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State. Mr. Sarkozy, who has been known to be tough on immigrants during his tenure as president, cautioned against linking the refugee crisis with the terrorist attacks, but added: “We need, together, to rein in the wave of migration ensuing from the Syrian situation.”
Eagles of Death Metal issue statement following Paris terror attacksEagles Of Death Metal have said they are “still trying to come to terms” with the Paris terror attacks, in a new statement posted on the California rock group’s Facebook page. The band, who were onstage at the Bataclan concert venue when the attack began, paid tribute to those who died, and praised French law enforcement agencies and those who helped “during this unimaginable ordeal”.“Although bonded in grief with the victims, the fans, the families, the citizens of Paris, and all those affected by terrorism, we are proud to stand together, with our new family, now united by a common goal of love and compassion,” the band said. One hundred and twenty-nine were killed and 352 injured when three teams of gunmen struck at six different sites across Paris on Friday. Eighty-nine victims were killed at the Bataclan. The band members were unharmed in the attack, which began around 9.40pm when three gunmen entered the lobby and opened fire. The musicians exited backstage, but the group’s merchandise manager, Nick Alexander, 36, and three executives from the band’s parent record label, Universal Music Group, were killed in the shooting. Band co-founder Jesse Hughes and other group members were in the middle of a European tour promoting the recent release of their fourth album Zipper Down. Josh Homme, the band’s other co-founder, who rarely tours, was not in Paris on the night of the attack. The band had been scheduled to end its 32-city European tour in December with a stop in Portugal. They had played only 11 of those dates before the attacks on Friday, but in the statement, said that all future concerts were on hold. While the band is now home safe, we are horrified and still trying to come to terms with what happened in France. Our thoughts and hearts are first and foremost with our brother Nick Alexander, our record company comrades Thomas Ayad, Marie Mosser, and Manu Perez, and all the friends and fans whose lives were taken in Paris, as well as their friends, families, and loved ones. Although bonded in grief with the victims, the fans, the families, the citizens of Paris, and all those affected by terrorism, we are proud to stand together, with our new family, now united by a common goal of love and compassion. We would like to thank the French police, the FBI, the U. S. and French State Departments, and especially all those at ground zero with us who helped each other as best they could during this unimaginable ordeal, proving once again that love overshadows evil. All EODM shows are on hold until further notice. In the hours after the attac, EODM posted a brief statement on Facebook, saying that they were “trying to determine the safety and whereabouts of all our band and crew.”Eagles of Death Metal were founded in the late 1990s in Palm Desert, California, by Hughes and Homme, lifelong friends and the only two permanent members. Other notable names among EODM’s rotating roster of members have at times included actor-musician Jack Black and Dave Grohl, frontman of the American rock band Foo Fighters. Following Friday’s attack, fans of the band launched an online campaign to push the rock act to the top of the UK singles chart. According to the Official Charts Company, the single in question – a cover of Duran Duran’s Save A Prayer – leaped a 52 places this week and was placed at No 44 on 17 November. Duran Duran have confirmed that they will donate proceeds from the single to charity.
Why Syrian refugee passport found at Paris attack scene must be treated with cautionOne of the most chilling details from the Paris attacks is that the passport of a Syrian refugee was found on or near the body of a dead suicide bomber. The Greek government has subsequently said that someone using the passport was among the refugees who landed in the Greek islands in early October, and the Serbian government says the passport was again used to cross its southern border a few days later. This development has increased fears of Isis infiltrators among the thousands of desperate refugees arriving in Europe. Allies of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, have voiced security concerns over her open-door policy and one, the Bavarian finance minister Markus Söder, told a German newspaper: “The days of uncontrolled immigration and illegal entry can’t continue just like that. Paris changes everything.”The new government in Poland is using the news as a reason to back out of an agreement to take in several thousand Syrians. And the front page of the British newspaper the Mail on Sunday stated definitively that the attackers “sneaked into Europe as fake Syrian refugees”. These fears should not be dismissed out of hand. Thousands of refugees arrive on the Greek islands every day. While each has to be registered before they can make it to the Greek mainland, the process is a brief formality rather than a lengthy investigation. In registrations witnessed by the Guardian during the summer, refugees simply presented identification to the Greek authorities, before being allowed to leave minutes later without anything like a background check. Since October, each arrival has also been fingerprinted but officials still do not have the time nor the resources to assess whether or not they’re connected to militant groups. Should a would-be terrorist want to reach Europe via the Greek islands, it would be relatively simple to do. But there are several reasons why it’s worth waiting until all the facts are known before making too strong a link between the attacks and the refugee crisis. The first is a general one: on at least 12 occasions, Isis has actually criticised refugees for fleeing to Europe. “For those who want to blame the attacks on Paris on refugees, you might want to get your facts straight,” wrote Aaron Zelin, an analyst of jihad, in an online commentary about the 12 outbursts. “The reality is, [Isis] loathes that individuals are fleeing Syria for Europe. It undermines [Isis’s] message that its self-styled caliphate is a refuge.” It’s therefore unlikely that the vast majority of Syrians fleeing to Europe are Isis supporters, since their actions are in obvious contravention of the group’s creed. The second reason for caution is more specific. Investigators still need to verify the Syrian passport was carried by an attacker rather than a dead bystander (one Egyptian passport-holder initially believed to be an assailant turned out to be an injured victim). They will then need to be certain that the passport’s carrier was the same as the passport’s legitimate owner. It’s possible that it was stolen. Since the possession of a Syrian passport makes it easier to claim asylum in Europe, there is a busy trade in stolen Syrian documents. Syrians interviewed on Greece’s border with Macedonia have described how they were mugged for their passports after leaving the Greek islands as they tried to make their way north through the Balkans. Such passports can be sold on for as much as several thousand euros, in a trade that the EU’s border agency acknowledges is a growing problem. Forgeries are also common; a Dutch journalist recently had one made in the name of his prime minister. A third red flag is the fact that the passport concerned was found in the first place. Analysts find it strange that a bomber would remember to bring his passport on a mission, particularly one who does not intend to return alive. “Why would a jihadist who expressly rejects all notions of modern citizenship take his passport on a suicide mission?” tweeted Charlie Winter, an analyst focusing on Islamist extremism. “So it gets found.”One theory is that Isis hopes to turn Europe against Syrian refugees. This would reinforce the idea of unresolvable divisions between east and west, and Christians and Muslims, and so persuade Syrians that Islamic State’s self-proclaimed caliphate is their best hope of protection. “You know what pissed off Islamist extremists the most about Europe?” summarised Iyad El-Baghdadi, an activist and jihadi-watcher, on Twitter. “It was watching their very humane, moral response to the refugee crisis.”Whether the passport was planted, stolen, forged or genuine, investigators should find out the truth soon enough. But regardless of what they discover, a wider debate has now begun about the wisdom of letting so many unknown migrants enter Europe through its southern borders, and being allowed to move onwards through the continent with few restrictions. Already, there are calls to step up the policing of Greece’s maritime border with Turkey, and to block the passage of refugees entirely. Such a strategy seems likely to fail. Europe is not nearly as isolated as Australia. An Australian-style policy of turning back boats would be impossible to enforce because Europe’s eastern shores lie less than six miles from where refugees set sail, rather than dozens. Instead, a more logical response would be to create an organised system of mass-resettlement from the Middle East itself. This would not satisfy Europe’s populists: it would formalise rather than end the continent’s biggest wave of mass migration since the second world war. But it would enable Europe to screen refugees before they arrive; work out who they are and where they’re from; and decide where they should go, and when they should get there. If such a process can be completed for a large enough group of people, and in a swift enough fashion, it would help deter a majority of refugees from traipsing through Europe in the current chaotic way. It would also give European governments a better chance of weeding out potential bombers – a fact that some Syrian refugees have acknowledged themselves.“Why make us all do this trip?” said a Syrian software developer, Maher Dahy, as he waited on the Croatian border in September. “Just organise it, give people visas so they can come on the plane. If you don’t, people will keep coming.”
Paris bomber had Syria refugee passport, official saysParis (CNN) The Syrian refugee crisis just got worse, due to the Paris attacks . French security forces move people in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District. A witness told BFMTV that firefighters were on the scene to treat the injured. French security forces move people in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District. A witness told BFMTV that firefighters were on the scene to treat the injured. Rescue workers and medics tend to victims at the scene of one of the shootings, a restaurant in the 10th District. Attackers reportedly used AK-47 automatic weapons in separate attacks across Paris, and there were explosions at the Stade de France. Rescue workers and medics tend to victims at the scene of one of the shootings, a restaurant in the 10th District. Attackers reportedly used AK-47 automatic weapons in separate attacks across Paris, and there were explosions at the Stade de France. People leave the Stade de France after explosions were heard near the stadium during a soccer match between France and Germany on Friday. Paris Deputy Mayor Patrick Klugman told CNN President Francois Hollande was at the match and was evacuated at halftime. People leave the Stade de France after explosions were heard near the stadium during a soccer match between France and Germany on Friday. Paris Deputy Mayor Patrick Klugman told CNN President Francois Hollande was at the match and was evacuated at halftime. French security forces rush in as people are evacuated in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District of Paris. French security forces rush in as people are evacuated in the area of Rue Bichat in the 10th District of Paris. Spectators gather on the field of the Stade de France after the attacks. Explosions were heard during the soccer match between France and Germany. Spectators gather on the field of the Stade de France after the attacks. Explosions were heard during the soccer match between France and Germany. A wounded man is evacuated from the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, outside Paris. A wounded man is evacuated from the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, outside Paris. Police secure the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, north of Paris, following explosions during the soccer match between France and Germany. Police secure the Stade de France in Saint-Denis, north of Paris, following explosions during the soccer match between France and Germany. A riot police officer stands by an ambulance near the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. A riot police officer stands by an ambulance near the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. A woman walks past police and firefighters in the Oberkampf area of Paris. A woman walks past police and firefighters in the Oberkampf area of Paris. A medic tends to a wounded man following the attacks near the Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire. A medic tends to a wounded man following the attacks near the Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire. Wounded people are evacuated outside the scene of a hostage situation at the Bataclan theater in Paris on November 13. Wounded people are evacuated outside the scene of a hostage situation at the Bataclan theater in Paris on November 13. Rescuers evacuate an injured person on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire, close to the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. Rescuers evacuate an injured person on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire, close to the Bataclan concert hall in central Paris. A body, covered by a sheet, is seen on the sidewalk outside the Bataclan theater. A body, covered by a sheet, is seen on the sidewalk outside the Bataclan theater. Spectators embrace each other as they stand on the playing field of the Stade de France stadium at the end of a soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis, outside Paris, on November 13. Spectators embrace each other as they stand on the playing field of the Stade de France stadium at the end of a soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis, outside Paris, on November 13. Spectators invade the pitch of the Stade de France stadium after the international friendly soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis. Spectators invade the pitch of the Stade de France stadium after the international friendly soccer match between France and Germany in Saint-Denis. A survivor of the terrorist attack in the Bataclan is assisted following terror attacks, November 13. The violence at the Bataclan, which involved a hostage-taking, resulted in the highest number of casualties of all the attacks. A survivor of the terrorist attack in the Bataclan is assisted following terror attacks, November 13. The violence at the Bataclan, which involved a hostage-taking, resulted in the highest number of casualties of all the attacks. Rescuers evacuate an injured person near the Stade de France, one of several sites of attacks November 13 in Paris. Thousands of fans were watching a soccer match between France and Germany when the attacks occurred. Rescuers evacuate an injured person near the Stade de France, one of several sites of attacks November 13 in Paris. Thousands of fans were watching a soccer match between France and Germany when the attacks occurred. Forensics are working in the street of Paris after the terrorist attack on Friday, November 13. The words "horror," "massacre" and "war" peppered the front pages of the country's newspapers, conveying the shell-shocked mood. Forensics are working in the street of Paris after the terrorist attack on Friday, November 13. The words "horror," "massacre" and "war" peppered the front pages of the country's newspapers, conveying the shell-shocked mood. A woman is evacuated from the Bataclan theater early on November 14. A woman is evacuated from the Bataclan theater early on November 14. Victims of the shooting at the Bataclan concert venue in central Paris are evacuated to receive medical treatment on November 14. Victims of the shooting at the Bataclan concert venue in central Paris are evacuated to receive medical treatment on November 14. Police officers patrol the area around Notre Dame cathedral in Paris on November 14. Police officers patrol the area around Notre Dame cathedral in Paris on November 14. A man with blood on his shirt talks on the phone on November 14. He is next to the Bataclan theater, where gunmen shot concertgoers and held hostages until police raided the building. A man with blood on his shirt talks on the phone on November 14. He is next to the Bataclan theater, where gunmen shot concertgoers and held hostages until police raided the building. Police, firefighters and rescue workers secure the area near the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Police, firefighters and rescue workers secure the area near the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Medics evacuate an injured woman on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire near the Bataclan early on November 14. Medics evacuate an injured woman on Boulevard des Filles du Calvaire near the Bataclan early on November 14. Security forces evacuate people on Rue Oberkampf near the Bataclan concert hall early on November 14. Security forces evacuate people on Rue Oberkampf near the Bataclan concert hall early on November 14. Shoes and a bloody shirt lie outside the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Most of the fatalities occurred at the Bataclan in central Paris. Shoes and a bloody shirt lie outside the Bataclan concert hall on November 14. Most of the fatalities occurred at the Bataclan in central Paris. Forensic police search for evidence inside the Comptoir Voltaire cafe after the attacks. Forensic police search for evidence inside the Comptoir Voltaire cafe after the attacks. Police are out in force November 14 near La Belle Equipe, one of the sites of the terror attacks. Police are out in force November 14 near La Belle Equipe, one of the sites of the terror attacks. A forensic scientist works near a Paris cafe on Saturday, November 14, following a series of coordinated attacks in Paris the night before that killed scores of people. ISIS has claimed responsibility. A forensic scientist works near a Paris cafe on Saturday, November 14, following a series of coordinated attacks in Paris the night before that killed scores of people. ISIS has claimed responsibility. Now more than ever, since the Syrian war began 4½ years ago, the crisis can be summed up as damned if you do, damned if you don't. What made it worse? Sunday's revelation that at least one of the Paris terrorists who killed more than 120 people on Friday entered Europe as just another face in the crowd -- embedded in the current wave of Syrian war refugees. The development appears likely to fire up the security debate over what to do with them. More than 4 million refugees have come to Europe since Syrian government forces and rebels started fighting, opening up safe havens for ISIS and pro-ISIS forces. The immigrant wave into Europe has been reaching new highs and it shows no sign of tapering off. One of the men who attacked Paris held an emergency passport or similar document, according to an unnamed French senator who was briefed by the French Ministry of the Interior. The senator told CNN the bomber falsely declared himself to be a Syrian named Ahmad al Muhammad, born on September 10, 1990, and was allowed to enter Greece on October 3. From there he moved to Macedonia, then Serbia and Croatia, where he registered in the Opatovac refugee camp, the lawmaker said. Eventually, he made his way to Paris, where he was one of three men who blew themselves up at the Stade de France. Fingerprints on the passport matched those of the Stade de France bomber, the French senator told CNN. The fingerprint was not in the French database, the senator said, and therefore officials believe the man was among a group of refugees and migrants. The two others who detonated themselves at the stadium carried false Turkish passports, the French senator said."This is what we had feared," a senior French official told the Wall Street Journal. European officials told CNN that they believe a new professional squad of terrorists is inserting itself into some of these migrant voyages. Terror in Paris: What we know so farPope Francis had already thought about this possibility back in September. He told a Portugese radio station, "It's true, nowadays, territorial security conditions are not the same as they were in other periods (of mass migration). ... The truth is that just 400 kilometres (250 miles) from Sicily there is an incredibly cruel terrorist group. So there is a danger of infiltration, this is true," The Telegraph reported. This development will likely intensify a bitter argument. One side believes it's important to provide shelter to thousands of helpless people who may die if they remain in Syria. The other side believes letting in Syrian war refugees will put host countries at greater risk for terrorist attacks. Vetting every incoming refugee would require huge resources. It likely would slow down a widening river of refugees that has already posed logistical problems in many nations. Just look how slowly the European Union is moving on its promise to relocate refugees: As of a few days ago, the EU had only relocated 147 of 160,000. See U. N. data about the refugee crisisBut the other end of the spectrum, closing borders to Syrian war refugees could force many Syrians to remain at home -- exposing them to deadly fighting between anti-government rebels and government forces. Many feel they must leave the region to save their lives. Closing borders to refugees also may violate international agreements. The United Nations' 1951 Refugee Convention, adopted after World War II, defines what refugees are: those who are seeking refuge from persecution. It also gives them the right to not be sent back home into harm's way, except under extreme circumstances. Hungary signed the U. N convention. But refugees who've sought refuge there have been subjected to detainment in what migrants and activists have described as dismal conditions as they await transfer. Hungary has erected a fence at its Serbian border to help control the flow of migrants. To get around Hungary, throngs of refugees traveling through Serbia headed west to Croatia as an alternative route into Western Europe. So far, Germany has been the most welcoming country, saying it might take in 1 million migrants by the end of the year. The government has worked to reduce aid to asylum seekers in the country and deport more quickly those who don't meet the official designation of political refugee. And in spite of sympathy for refugees from the vast majority of Germans, bands of far-right protesters have shouted hate and venom at arriving refugees, throwing bottles at their buses. Dozens of empty, waiting shelters have been torched by arsonists. Another wrinkle to this global headache: Keeping borders open to war refugees might encourage more people to take dangerous risks during their journey from Syria to Europe. Many have already drowned during attempts to cross the Mediterranean in makeshift boats. Then there's the deadly weather. Winter is coming. Travel will increasingly become a potentially life-threatening choice for many families. There seem to be no simple solutions to a terribly complicated problem. And it just got a lot worse.
Paris attacks: 'Syrian refugee passport' found at stadium bomb sceneA fake Syrian passport found beside one of the Paris suicide bombers has raised fears one of the attackers may have masqueraded as an asylum seeker to infiltrate Europe and wreak carnage in the name of Isil. The passport found beside the body of a suicide bomber after the attack at France’s national stadium was apparently used to enter Europe less than two months ago on a route taken by hundreds of thousands of refugees and migrants this year. French authorities said on Sunday night the passport was a fake, but the discovery still raised questions of whether some militants might have entered Europe during the migration crisis, or if it had been left at the scene deliberately for some reason. A booming market in counterfeit travel documents has grown up for refugees and migrants travelling to Europe, with fake and secondhand Syrian passports widely available in Turkey and Syria. Greek authorities have confirmed that the identity document was used by an asylum seeker who registered on the island of Leros on October 3 bearing the name of 25-year old Ahmad al-Mohammad. According to reports, he reached Lerus after his makeshift boat from Turkey carrying around 70 migrants foundered off the coast and he was picked up by Greek coastguards. He then went to Serbia via Preservo, where he made his asylum request, before joining the Opatovac camp in Croatia, and heading on to Hungary. The corridor through Greece and the Balkans has become notorious for lax controls and ease in obtaining transit documents as hundreds of thousands of asylum-seekers trek toward Western Europe. Protothema, a Greek news website, on Sunday claimed to have recovered a ferry ticket bearing the name Ahmed Almuhamed and a second with the name Mohammed Almuhmed. The ferry travelled from Kalymonos to Pireus and then Athens, it claimed. The site alleged that Greek customs were insufficiently staffed on October 3 to conduct detailed checks on the authenticity of the Syrian passport. However, the bearer of Ahmad al-Mohammad’s passport did give his fingerprints, meaning that these can be cross-checked with those of the suicide bomber. The passport could also be a fake or have been used fraudulently. A US intelligence official told CBS News it did not contain the correct numbers for a legitimate Syrian passport and the picture did not match the name. If forgery is confirmed, the document in question could have come from one of several places. In Turkey, the fake passport business is booming. For a one-off payment of around £1,000, it is possible to purchase a document that once belonged to someone else. In this case, a simple switch of the photograph opens the pathway to a whole new identity. In other cases, smugglers obtain genuine blank passports stolen from government buildings in Syria amid the chaos of its internal conflict, as well as the machines for processing them. Another possibility would be that the document was made up inside Isil-held territory itself. When the terror group seized control of major cities, it took over all government buildings, including passport offices. According to Le Parisien, Greek authorities have handed their French counterparts the fingerprints and a photograph. If it proves to be one of the killers, it will deepen concern that Isil fighters may be among the hundreds of thousands of war-weary Syrians reaching Europe’s shores and being granted fast-track asylum. Right-wing opposition politicians in France, including Nicolas Estrosi, mayor of Nice, have warned that this may be the case. On Saturday, Markus Soeder, Bavaria’s finance minister, said: “Not every refugee is a terrorist from Isil, but to suggest that there isn’t a single fighter is naive.”However, Ursula von der Leyen, the German defence minister, said: “Terrorism is organised in such a way that (a terrorist) wouldn’t take the risk of taking the difficult migrant’s route, which includes mortally dangerous high-sea crossings”.“That’s why I ask for restraint when people lump together terrorism and refugees.”
Syrians react to passport found at Paris attack sceneThe Syrian passport found at the scene of one of the Paris attacks is causing a strong reaction among Syrians online, some of whom fear the consequences in Western policy. One of the seven people named by French officials as suspected perpetrators of the deadly Paris attacks is believed to be Syrian - because of a passport found at the scene. Ahmad al-Mohammad, a 25-year-old from Idlib, is believed to have died after he blew himself up at the Stade de France. A Syrian passport bearing his name was found at the scene. Investigators are still trying to establish whether the passport is genuine. The Paris prosecutor's office said fingerprints from the attacker matched those of a person who came to Europe with migrants via the Greek island of Leros. According to other reports, a man in Serbia has now been detained after the passport he was carrying also included many of the details on the passport found at the Paris attack scene - leading to speculation that multiple passports could have been from the same forger. The possibility of one of the perpetrators being a Syrian would have implications for Europe's debate over admitting refugees, and this was not lost on the thousands of Syrians, inside and outside the country, who commented online. "God help the Syrian refugees in France and everywhere else," tweeted one. "They were already having a rough time and they will have an even tougher time now."Others joined the English-language Twitter conversation under the hashtag "Pray For Syria," which has seen nearly 750,000 messages posted since Sunday - many condemning French airstrikes against so-called Islamic State in Raqqa. Join the conversation on this and other stories here. Other Syrian Facebook users questioned the authenticity of the passport. "I do not get it," said one of them. "How come he blew himself up, but his passport survived?" Another argued: "Syrians have become a bogeyman; they are blamed for anything that happens in the world. It was even said that they were behind the sandstorm in Jordan."Many commented on a status shared by a popular Syrian Al-Jazeera TV anchor, Faysal Al-Qasim, who posted a short excerpt from a Syrian soap opera where a character asks: "What kind of an idiot criminal forgets his ID at the crime scene?"Germany's justice minister waded into the debate about the passport on Monday, warning that so-called Islamic State could be trying to exploit Europe's refugee debate, according to reports. Justice Minister Heiko Maas called for "very, very great prudence, until things are clear". He told public broadcaster ARD: "We are aware that IS is known to leave false tracks behind to politicise and radicalise the issue over refugees in Europe."Next story: Millions are sharing attack stories that aren't about ParisThe most-read story on the BBC News website on Sunday was about a terror attack - but not the one currently dominating the news. READ MOREYou can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending, and find us on Facebook. All our stories are at bbc.com/trending.
Lebanon holds day of mourning after deadly Beirut blastsLebanon is holding a day of national mourning after at least 41 people were killed in two suicide bombings in the capital, Beirut. The Islamic State (IS) militant group says it was behind the attacks in Burj al-Barajneh, a mainly Shia southern suburb and Hezbollah stronghold. Hezbollah forces are fighting IS in neighbouring Syria. The bombing is the deadliest in the capital since the end of Lebanon's civil war in 1990. Lebanese Prime Minister Tammam Salam called for unity in the face of attempts to create strife. In reaction from Washington, the White House in a statement condemned the "horrific terrorist" bomb blasts which it said "would only serve to reinforce our commitment to support the institutions of the Lebanese state, including the security services, to ensure a stable, sovereign and secure Lebanon". Iran - a key ally of Hezbollah - has also condemned the attack. The blasts on Thursday evening struck in a busy shopping street. More than 200 people were wounded - many of them seriously, Health Minister Wael Abou Faour said. The army said that two men wearing suicide vests carried out the attack. The first bomber detonated his explosive vest outside a Shia mosque, while the second blew himself up inside a nearby bakery. The body of a third bomber who failed to detonate his explosives was found at the scene of the second blast. An IS statement - which could not be independently verified - said that its "soldiers of the Caliphate" detonated explosives which were concealed on a motorbike. It identified the three attackers as two Palestinians and a Syrian."After the apostates gathered in the area, one of the knights of martyrdom detonated his explosive belt in the midst of them," the statement said. It did not refer to Hezbollah's involvement in Syria. Hezbollah has in turn accused IS of targeting innocent civilians, including unarmed people and the elderly. "It was a Satanic terrorist attack," Hezbollah official Bilal Farhat told the Associated Press. Hezbollah has vowed to continue its fight against "terrorists", warning of a "long war" against its enemies, according to the Reuters news agency. BBC Arab affairs analyst Sebastian Usher says it is no surprise that IS has claimed these bombings, but their ferocity will once again reawaken the spectre of Lebanon's 15-year civil war. Hospitals in southern Beirut have urged people to donate blood and called on residents not to congregate at hospital gates so that ambulances and emergency staff could get in and out without being delayed. Witnesses described a hellish scene in the aftermath of the blasts which took place minutes apart from each other."I'd just arrived at the shops when the blast went off. I carried four bodies with my own hands, three women and a man, a friend of mine," a man who identified himself as Zein al-Abideen Khaddam told local television. Another described the deafening sound: "When the second blast went off, I thought the world had ended."US Secretary of State John Kerry has meanwhile urged countries attending Syrian peace talks this weekend to show flexibility - he said that while diplomatic efforts to bring the civil war to an end were not on the verge of success, all parties in the conflict had a responsibility "not to dig in their heels so that the bleeding can stop". Prime Minister Salam condemned the attacks as "unjustifiable" and called on Lebanon's rival factions to unite against "plans to create strife". Hezbollah's strongholds in southern Beirut were the target of a series of bombings in 2013 and 2014 mostly claimed by Sunni jihadist militants - who denounced Hezbollah's decision to send fighters to neighbouring Syria to prop up President Bashar al-Assad. In recent weeks, Hezbollah has sent reinforcements to Syria in support of government offensives in northern areas held by rebel forces or IS.
Lebanon in mourning after Islamic State attackSchools shut throughout the country on Friday as local media hail 'hero' who prevented further deaths in deadly twin bombingResidents in Burj al-Barajneh watch as security forces investigate the double blast site (AFP)Lebanon on Friday mourned 43 people killed in south Beirut in a twin bombing claimed by the Islamic State group, the bloodiest such attack in years. At least 239 people were also wounded, several in critical condition, in blasts that hit a busy shopping street in the Burj al-Barajneh neighbourhood, where many supporters of the Hezbollah movement live. The attack raised memories of a campaign against the group between 2013 and 2014, ostensibly in revenge for its military support of government forces in neighbouring Syria's civil war. Thursday’s bombing, though, was the largest attack ever claimed by IS in Lebanon, and among the deadliest bombings to hit the country since the end of the 1975-1990 civil war. On Friday, families prepared to collect the bodies of loved ones from hospitals as the country observed a day of national mourning declared by Prime Minister Tammam Salam. Schools were closed for the day, and politicians across Lebanon's fractured political spectrum offered condemnations of the attack. The first bomber targeted a Shia religious venue known as a Hussainia on the last day of the month of Muharram, when Shia Muslims mourn the death of Ali, the most venerated historical figure in the tradition. Local media on Friday hailed as a hero Adel Tormos, who was worshipping inside the Hussainia when the bomber attempted to enter. Tormos stopped the attacker getting into the packed building – he and his young daughter were reportedly killed when the suicide bomber detonated his explosives vest outside the venue instead. Translation: One of the martyrs, Adel Tormos, sacrificed himself to stop of one the suicide bombers before he entered the mosqueThe second bomb struck some seven minutes after the first - in footage from the scene screams of panic and shock in the wake of the initial blast can be heard as the second hits. The body of a third attempted attacker who failed to detonate his explosive device was found at the scene of the second blast. A fourth man wearing a suicide vest was arrested on Thursday night as he reportedly attempted to enter a hospital in the same district. Unverified footage from the scene showed shots echoing through the streets of the deprived suburb as security services chased the alleged militant before apprehending him. Local television showed bystanders rushing to the scene to help pull people from the rubble of destroyed buildings and ferry them to hospitals, which put out calls for urgent blood donations."I carried four bodies with my own hands, three women and a man, a friend of mine," a man who gave his name as Zein al-Abideen Khaddam told local television. Another described the sound of the explosions: "When the second blast went off, I thought the world had ended."An IS statement of responsibility for the attack, which could not be verified, but followed the format of previous such statements, did not mention the Hezbollah movement or its involvement in the Syrian conflict, but instead used starkly sectarian language and derogatory terms aimed at Shia Muslims. The militant Sunni group considers members of the sect, as well as others who stray from its interpretation of Islam, to be apostates. Supporters of the group hailed the bombing online, celebrating an attack that targeted one of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s main allies. Backers of Hezbollah, which entered the Syrian conflict in 2012 to support Assad, circulated images of boxes of missiles marked “in revenge for the victims of al-Dhaheya,” the suburb where the attack occurred. Assad’s government was quick to condemn the “criminal” attack, saying in a statement that it represented “the same terror that threatens Syria…and threatens to spread throughout the region and the whole world”. Regional powers including Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Jordan were also quick to condemn the attack, and French President Francois Hollande on Friday called it “despicable”. Within Lebanon, which remains bitterly divided 15 years after the end of a civil war that lasted one and a half decades, political leaders from across the spectrum also decried the bombings. Former Lebanese premier Saad Hariri, who leads a political bloc opposed to Hezbollah and its allies, called the attack "vile and unjustified". The blasts were the first to target a Hezbollah stronghold since mid-2014, after a campaign of such attacks in 2013 and 2014. In the last, in the southern suburbs of Beirut in June last year, a suicide car bomb killed a security officer. The attacks were claimed by a variety of militant groups, including one in January 2014 claimed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, which later rebranded itself as IS. Most said their attacks were in retaliation for Hezbollah's backing of President Bashar al-Assad's regime, although the victims of the blasts were overwhelmingly civilians. Hezbollah is a staunch ally of the Syrian government and is backed by Iran, another key supporter of the Damascus government. In early 2013, it officially acknowledged that it was dispatching fighters to back government forces against an uprising that began with anti-government demonstrations in March 2011. Since then, it has become deeply involved in the conflict, deploying fighters throughout the country to bolster Assad's troops on a range of battlefields. At least 971 Hezbollah fighters have been killed in Syria, according to the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.
A father's split-second heroism saved countless lives in another terror attack, in BeirutAs a second suicide bomber moved toward onlookers clustering at the scene of the explosion, Termos rushed the suspect."He tackled him to the ground, causing the second suicide bomber to detonate," says blogger and physician Elie Fares, who lives in Beirut. "There are many many families, hundreds of families probably, who owe their completeness to his sacrifice."ISIS has claimed responsibility for the twin suicide bombings that took an estimated 45 lives, including Termos. More than 200 people were wounded. Among the survivors: his daughter, Fares says. Bassima Termos told CNN on Monday: “The kids and I are all doing fine. He made us proud, put our heads up high, what more do I need? He gave me dignity, pride, and respect."Fares says when similar bombings occurred in Beirut in years past, Lebanese were quick to view the events through the prism of sectarian politics."The street is still divided by political and sectarian lines, but this time around the sense is that these are people, period," Fares says. "They're dead because of something they had absolutely no role in ... They died because of some demented, twisted politics."Fares says it would be wrong to call the victims martyrs."Calling them martyrs is a sort of Lebanese way to not only dehumanize them, it's to sort of make ourselves feel better that, yeah, it's okay, they died, but they're martyrs which means they're in heaven and they're in a better place," he says. "But the fact of the matter is it's just sort of a label to make ourselves feel better, and maybe their families feel better because the label of 'victim' means there's a sort of accountability to the process."The two blasts hit during the evening rush hour, and devastated a commercial strip of southern Beirut. Lebanon shares a border with Syria and hosts more than one million refugees from throughout the region. RELATED: Outpouring of world support for France after Paris terror attacksHow she deals with hate: She's donating $1 to UNICEF for every hate tweet she getsIs there a double standard in the world's reaction to Paris, Beirut attacks?
Paris terror attacks: Obama defends Isis strategy – as it happenedJeremy Corbyn, the opposition Labour leader in the UK, has already given at least two interviews about the Paris attacks (see 10.36am and 2.56pm) but the most revealing is easily this new one, by the BBC’s political editor, Laura Kuenssberg. Corbyn, a relatively obscure leftwing backbencher until his surprise victory in the leadership election in September, is probably the most pacifist figure to lead a major UK political party since the 1930s and this interview revealed how different his views are from David Cameron’s - or from Ed Miliband’s, his predecessor as Labour leader. Here are the main points. I think I would support security measures, policing measures, to deal with these issues, but I think we have to be careful if we act illegally or irrationally; we stand by the rule of international law, we stand by the charter of the United Nations, we stand by our own law. If we start doing random acts without legal backing for them, then we don’t strengthen our position in the world. So I think the answer to your question is that we have to abide by the law. When it was put to him that in some circumstances military action against Islamist extremists would be legal, he said whether or not he would approve was a hypothetical question. Bombing Syria was not the right way forward, and he would not support it at this stage, he said. When Kuenssberg pressed him for a third time he replied:I’m not saying I would or I wouldn’t. I’m saying its a hypothetical question at this stage. My view is we have to review our foreign policy, review the situation that’s going on in the region and listen to words put forward by Barack Obama on behalf of the United States and Ban Ki-moon on behalf of the United Nations. They made some very wise comments over the weekend. There has to at the end be a political solution to it. I’m not happy with a shoot-to-kill policy in general. I think that is quite dangerous and I think that can often by counter-productive. I think you have to have security that prevents people firing off weapons where they can ... The idea that you end up with a war on the streets is not a good thing. Surely you have to work to try and prevent these things happening. That has got to be the priority. This story was prompted by a front page Times story on Monday (paywall) saying special forces have been ordered to intervene and shoot to kill if jihadis stage a Paris-style attack in a British city. But he said he did think Western policy was a factor in explaining the attacks. We have created a situation where some of these forces have grown. Obviously, [I] absolutely blame those that did it. Absolutely, obviously, Isil are totally wrong. Obviously they are some kind of nihilistic movement that are a threat to everybody. Is the way of dealing with them bombing which will include civilian casualties? Bombing does. Or is the way to obviously make the necessary security protective measures in each country, but also to try and get a solution in Syria? We can’t go on with more and more people leaving Syria who are refugees from all wars ... We’ve got a record, all the Western countries, of interventions, all across the whole piste, and has peace got better as a result of it? Well, I think you know the answer as well as I do to that.
Barack Obama responds to Paris attacks, opposes Syria ground troopsAntalya, Turkey (CNN) President Barack Obama sharply defended his strategy Monday for going after ISIS amid mounting criticism that the U. S. is not doing enough to stop the terror organization that went on a killing spree in Paris last week. He faced a barrage of tough and probing questions from international journalists at a G20 summit in Antalya, Turkey, that often put him on the defensive. In response, he repeatedly stressed confidence in his approach to combating terrorism and handling Syria, where a civil war has dogged his administration for years and helped create an opening for ISIS to flourish."We have the right strategy and we're going to see it through," Obama said. "There will be an intensification of the strategy we have put forward, but the strategy we have put forward is the strategy that will ultimately work" though it will take time. He said that airstrikes by the U. S.-led coalition have been effective in taking out key members of the terror group's leadership and that a large presence of ground troops in Syria would be a "mistake."An increasing chorus of critics, especially in the GOP, have called for a more aggressive U. S. military effort in fighting ISIS, but Obama pushed back against that call."It is not just my view but the view of my closest military and civilian advisers that that would be a mistake," Obama said, adding that's "because we would see a repetition of what we've seen before, which is if you do not have local populations that are committed to inclusive governance and who are pushing back against ideological extremes, that they resurface, unless we're prepared to have a permanent occupation of these countries."Last month, Obama committed to sending "less than 50" Special Operations forces to the region to fight ISIS, also know as ISIL. Obama used much of the press conference to strike back at his critics, sounding at times defensive and combative. His tone also contrasted with that of French President Francois Hollande, who was speaking at the same time in France."France is at war," Hollande declared, indicating he would ask parliament to impose a three-month-long state of emergency. Obama, for his part, justified his use of the term "contained" last week to describe the ISIS threat, a remark he made in an interview that aired just hours before the Paris terror attack."When I said that we are containing their spread in Iraq and Syria, in fact they control less territory then they did last year and the more we shrink that territory, the less they can pretend that they are somehow a functioning state," Obama said Monday. "And the more it becomes apparent that they are simply a network of killers who are brutalizing local populations that allows us to reduce the flow of foreign fighters, which then over time will lessen the numbers of terrorist who can potential carry out terrible acts like they did in Paris."He was also dismissive of those who "seem to think that if I were just more bellicose in expressing what we're doing, that would make a difference."Instead, he said, "We'll do what is required to keep the American people safe."He continued, "if folks want to pop off and have opinions about what they think they would do, present a specific plan. If they think that somehow their advisers are better than my chairman of my Joint Chiefs of Staff and the folks who are actually on the ground, I want to meet them. "He cited U. S. efforts to help Kurds retake Sinjar Mountain in Iraq and the recent killing of an ISIS leader in Libya as examples of his strategy working."ISIL leaders will not have a safe-haven anywhere," he said, calling the terror group the "face of evil."In regards to preventing the Paris attack, Obama said his intelligence agencies gave no specific mentions of this particular attack that would have indicated something that the U. S. could have provided French authorities."I'm not aware of anything that is specific that would have given premonition of action in Paris," he said. But Obama did announce that the United States would begin a new "streamlined" process of sharing intelligence with France. He said the agreement will allow intelligence personnel to "pass threat information, including on ISIL, to our French partners more quickly and more often" and could help prevent further attacks. The fruits of that cooperation were borne Sunday night, when French jets began a bombardment of Raqqa, the Syrian headquarters of ISIS. A senior administration official said the U. S. was assisting the operation. But the mission reflected only an incremental surge of existing strategy, which has focused on using air power to take out ISIS sites in Iraq and Syria. White House officials ruled out sending combat ground troops into Syria, and made no indication it was rethinking a no-fly-zones. Obama was speaking just before departing from the G20 summit, being held at a Turkish resort 500 miles from the Syrian border. The economic conference was already slated to focus intently on combating ISIS before the Paris attacks; after the mass violence in France, talks between Obama and other leaders revolved primarily on the terror crisis. He huddled for 30 minutes with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday, agreeing during the informal meeting on a path toward a political transition in Syria. He also spoke with the king of Saudi Arabia and European leaders to consolidate support for his plan against ISIS. But there appeared to be little appetite among foreign leaders here for a large-scale ground effort in Syria. The Paris attacks have dashed whatever momentum Obama had been enjoying in his battle against ISIS, including helping Kurdish fighters retake Sinjar Mountain in Iraq and apparently killing the ISIS executioner "Jihadi John" in a drone strike. They've also brought new scrutiny to the flood of refugees from Syria, which Obama has said must prompt new measures by European nations to accommodate those fleeing their country's civil war. One of the suspected culprits of the Paris terror attack is thought to have entered Europe in the current wave of migrants, leading some leaders to demand tighter controls on the flow. The U. S. has accepted only 1,500 refugees from Syria since 2011, but the White House said in September that 10,000 would be allowed entry next year. Obama condemned critics who want a "religious test" for admitting refugees from Syria, blasting the idea as un-American. He also used the charge to indirectly attack Republican 2016 presidential candidates."When I hear political leaders suggesting that there would be a religious test for which a person who is fleeing from a war-torn country is admitted, when some of those folks themselves come from families who benefited from protection when they were fleeing political persecution, that's shameful, that's not American," Obama said. "That's not who we are. We don't have religious tests (for) our compassion."Florida Sen. Marco Rubio and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, who are both running for president, are the children of Cuban immigrants and have called for increased scrutiny of refugees fleeing Syria who seek asylum in the U. S. Obama called on world leaders to accept refugees fleeing the conflicts in Syria and Iraq, though he added that accepting refugees required "rigorous screening and security checks.""We also have to remember that many of these refugees are victims of terrorism themselves," Obama said."The overwhelming majority of victims of terrorism ... are Muslims," Obama added later. "ISIL does not represent Islam, it is not representative in any way of the attitudes of the overwhelming majority of Muslims."
The Islamic State militant group claims responsibility for Paris attacks in which at least 128 dieThe group calling iself Islamic State has said it was behind a series of bomb blasts and shootings that have left at least 128 people dead and dozens more injured in central Paris on Friday night. There were at least seven attacks, all in the east and north of the city. In one venue alone – the Bataclan concert venue – dozens of people lost their lives. A heavy metal band were in the middle of a concert when gunmen opened fire on the crowd. Witnesses say the firing lasted for at least fifteen minutes. The attackers were apparently bent on killing as many people as possible, leaving the security forces no choice but to storm the building before more people died. Given the nature of the concert it is likely that most of the victims in the audience would have been young people. As well as the Bataclan the attack sites included the restaurants Le Carillon, La Belle Equipe, Le Petit Cambodge, and a fast food restaurant near the national football stadium, the Stade de France. The clearly shocked French President Francois Hollande described the attacks as ‘unprecedented’ and called on the country to stay strong in the face of fear. He insisted France will be victorious. Earlier the president had been watching his country play football against Germany in the Stade de France. It was near there that the first of the suicide bombers struck at a fast food restaurant. The game was abandoned and he left for the Interior Ministry. Spectators were kept in the stadium for some time to stop them spilling on to the streets. With about an hour a series of other attacks had taken place including the assault on the Bataclan concert hall. A restaurant was attacked in the 11th district by a suicide bomber. Reports say eleven people were killed there. The city was immediately put on lock down. All security force leave was cancelled and 1500 hundred soldiers were mobilised to help bring the situation under control. By 5am CET, police were saying eight attackers had been killed but that accomplices could still be at large. Francois Hollande ordered all France’s borders be closed. Paris came under effective curfew for the first time since 1944. Hospitals were overwhelmed as fleets of ambulances ferried the dead and injured to them throughout the night. Twelve hospitals around Paris were put on full alert. Early on Saturday morning it was still unclear if all the gunmen had been captured or killed. President Obama was quick to send his condolences to France and to offer all the help the US can give to pursue those responsible for what he called an attack on humanity. There are reports that some of the attackers shouted that their actions were a response to France’s actions in Syria. The attacks came within days of attacks claimed by Islamic State militants on a Shi’ite Muslim district of southern Beirut in Lebanon, and almost two weeks after a Russian tourist aircraft which crashed in Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula. France has been on high alert ever since Islamist gunmen attacked the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo and a Kosher supermarket in Paris in January, killing 18 people.
Why Did ISIS Attack Paris?Please consider disabling it for our site, or supporting our work in one of these waysWe may not know for years. But the answer is critical as France and its allies ready their response. In the aftermath of attacks like the one in Paris on Friday, which killed 129 and critically wounded nearly as many, two sets of questions tend to arise: How could this happen? And why did it happen? The “how” questions are what preoccupy investigators for the first few days after such an attack, as they race to identify the assailants and their collaborators before they can strike again. A complex assault such as the Paris operation usually involves many more people than the perpetrators; as of this writing, seven known assailants have been killed, but authorities in France and Belgium, where the attacks are believed to have been organized, are hunting for additional suspects. Officials will also be looking for weaknesses in France’s defenses. How could so many attackers with explosives have penetrated the country? Clearly there was a major intelligence failure. Border security, surveillance capacity, and coordination between security services will be heavily scrutinized. Who Were the Paris Attackers? The next set of “how” questions will be more difficult to answer. The Islamic State took credit for the attacks, and no other group has yet made a counterclaim. But if the ISIS claim proves to be true, how exactly was the Islamic State’s central leadership involved? The scenarios range from the ISIS high command training the attackers and facilitating the attacks themselves to a relatively autonomous group of ISIS loyalists conducting the attacks largely on their own. There are multiple possibilities in between as well; for example, an Islamic State operative could have been charged with organizing attacks in Europe without having to check in with headquarters. The answer is important because it will give clues about whether the Islamic State intends to devote its considerable wealth and military expertise to foreign operations, which would be very worrisome. It is worrisome enough if those affiliated with or merely inspired by the Islamic State organized such sophisticated attacks. But the most difficult question is also the most consequential, and it concerns not how but why the attacks took place. Again, there are a range of theories, some of which could overlap, some of them mutually contradictory:1. This is what global jihadists do—they can’t help themselves. 2. This was always the plan, but ISIS didn’t have the capability or opportunity to carry it out before. 3. The Islamic State wants to offset its territorial loses in Syria and Iraq by carrying out high-profile attacks abroad. 4. It wants to show up al-Qaeda to cement its position as leader of the global jihad. 5. It wants to deter powerful nations from carrying out more attacks against it. 6. Quite the opposite: It actually wants its enemies to go all in in Syria and Iraq in order to a) drain their resources, b) create total chaos, c) present itself as defender of the Muslims, and/or d) bring on the End of Days. The truth is, we probably won’t know the answer for sure for some time. It took years for the real reasons why al-Qaeda attacked the United States on 9/11 to surface, from computers recovered in an al-Qaeda office in Kabul—the group hoped the United States would either pull its troops entirely out of the Muslim world, or commit to a massive invasion that would drain America’s treasury and enrage Muslim opinion, in turn eventually forcing America to leave the Muslim world anyway. The reasons why al-Qaeda attacked the United States on 9/11 only surfaced years after the attacks. Initially, the United States didn’t do either. Instead, it toppled the Taliban government that had allowed al-Qaeda to operate in Afghanistan, and drove al-Qaeda from its hideouts there by supporting the Taliban’s enemies from the air and with special-operations forces. But soon after that, the United States sent large armies into Afghanistan and Iraq. Had the American people known that’s what al-Qaeda wanted all along, perhaps they would have demanded a different course. Which brings us to the response to the Paris attacks. French President Francois Hollande has pledged a “pitiless” retaliation. France was already bombing the Islamic State in Syria as part of the American-led coalition against the group, so he presumably intends to escalate France’s military role, with France’s weekend airstrikes on the Islamic State headquarters of Raqqa perhaps representing a first step. Maybe he will go so far as to invoke Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, according to which an attack on one NATO ally is an attack on all of them, to call for an allied invasion of Islamic State territory. Even if Hollande doesn’t want to go that far, the political pressure to do more to fight ISIS will be immense. And indeed, terrorism is designed to provoke an overreaction—either complete disengagement or a massive show of force. But if the Islamic State struck France to persuade the allies to change the middle course they’ve been pursuing between those two extremes in Syria and Iraq—a course that involves airstrikes and empowering local militias—then perhaps it’s worth considering the merits of the approach the Islamic State apparently dislikes so much. Over the past year, the allies have chipped away at the Islamic State, reducing ISIS territory by 25 percent, according to the U. S. Defense Department. The pace is slow but steady. Terrorism is designed to provoke an overreaction—either complete disengagement or a massive show of force. Still, even the destruction of the Islamic State’s government in Syria and Iraq won’t immediately end the group’s terror attacks abroad. If anything, it will increase them. Terror campaigns are used by weak states that feel threatened. There are other countries where ISIS’s leaders or their affiliates can plot attacks. That’s not a reason to escalate in those countries too; it’s merely a recognition that the problem extends beyond the Islamic State’s core territory. ISIS promised that the Paris attacks were “the first of the downpour.” Given the political instability in the Middle East and North Africa that has fueled the rise of the Islamic State, the countries on its enemies list will likely be weathering the storm for a long time to come. But the best way to do this is to find out why it’s raining in the first place, and how best to find shelter.
Syrian Rebels Fear Assad Is Being ForgottenOn Sunday night French jets pounded Raqqa, the claimed-capital of the militants from the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). It was the largest raid yet by France against the militants and the reason was clear—payback for the attack on its capital, Paris, claimed by ISIS two days before. France has long been part of the anti-ISIS coalition but stood firm that Syrian President Bashar Assad was the main threat in Syria, and couldn’t be part of the solution. Even when the U. S. backed down from striking government targets in 2013 after alleged chemical weapons attacks by Assad’s forces, France vowed to punish Assad. Two years later, the U. S. and France are sitting at the table with Assad’s key supporters Iran and Russia, while their fighter jets pound ISIS targets in Syria. Now some in the Syrian opposition worry that the attack in Paris is going to further push the focus of the international community away from Assad, whose future is still being debated by world powers, to ISIS—and that they may decide it’s better to live with Assad if it helps defeat ISIS. That’s already the argument that Moscow—allied with Assad—is making. “It doesn’t matter if you are for Assad or against him,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told reporters as the talks in Vienna got underway. “ISIS is your enemy.”The attack in Paris galvanized international efforts and added pressure to find a fast solution to the conflict in Syria, which has killed more than 250,000 people and displaced millions more—most killed by regime forces, the Syrian opposition is quick to point out, not ISIS. Over the weekend in Vienna, 19 nations set aside their differences and tried to chart a solution to the Syrian conflict. They started the session with a moment of silence for the victims of the Paris attack and also other recent attacks in Beirut, Iraq, Ankara, and Egypt. But rather than setting aside their differences, the nations involved in Vienna seem to have largely papered over those differences in order to hammer out an agreement on Syria’s future. The bold solution has a lot big ideas—promising a ceasefire in six months, a transitional government and a new constitution and elections in 18 month—but lacks both details and the resolution of key questions. Paramount among them, of course, is the future of President Bashar Al-Assad.“Transitional government means new government,” says Hisham Marwah, vice president of the Syrian National Coalition, an opposition network that has long been clear that Assad cannot be part of a political solution for Syria. There’s also the question of which groups fighting in Syria are considered ‘terrorists.’ All the parties agree that the ‘terrorists’ should be excluded from the political process and can be bombed even when the ceasefire comes into effect, but they differ on exactly who these terrorists are. For the Syrian regime, and its main backers Russia and Iran, the ‘terrorists’ are any rebel group fighting against the regime—including those supported by Gulf states and Western powers. Meanwhile, Iraqi, Afghan, Iranian and Lebanese Shiite militias, including Hezbollah, are fighting on Assad’s behalf across Syria, as well as a handful of Russian forces supporting them. Even as the parties discussed the peace plan in Vienna, Syrian rebel groups were fighting against Iranian-backed militias who had Russian air cover. “We are sad for the French victims, but the Iranians and Russians are more terrorists than any other group,” says Abu Hamza, a spokesperson for Revolutionary Command Council near Damascus, part of the mostly Sunni rebel groups fighting against Assad and his allied militia.“Everyone has his own blacklist of terrorist groups, so the war will rage on,” says Abdurahman Harkoush, a media activist close to opposition rebel groups in Syria. So far only ISIS and the Al-Qaeda-linked Nusra Front have been designated terrorist groups. “They are just making fantasies in Vienna.”The day after the Paris attack, Assad went has far to tell reporters that the “mistaken policies” of the French have contributed to the “spread of terrorism” a seeming dig at France’s focus on ending his regime rather than ISIS. Reports now indicate that some of the Paris attackers may have fought against Assad in Syria and returned to carry out the attacks in France. Harkoush and others worry in the wake of the Paris attacks, Lebanon, Iraq and Egypt, France and other world powers will soften their stance on Assad and focus on ISIS alone. “Now they can convince France to accept a political solution without the departure of Assad,” says Harkoush. “Now France’s main problem is ISIS. Now France wants to have its war with ISIS.”
Muslims Speak Out Against TerrorismBefore the Islamic State of Iraq and Greater Syria had even claimed responsibility for the shootings and explosions that killed more than 120 in Paris on Friday night, Muslims around the world took to social media to condemn the perpetrators and defend Islam as a faith of nonviolence. The bloodshed was linked to Islamic extremists early on, following reports that the perpetrators had referred to French policy towards Muslims and screamed “Allahu Akbar” during the attacks. President François Hollande officially named ISIS as the group behind what he called an “act of war” just before noon local time. Several Muslim religious and political leaders officially denounced the attacks before the group took responsibility, including Iranian president Hassan Rouhani, who called them a “crime against humanity,” and Qatari foreign minister Khaled al-Attiyah, who said they were “heinous.” Rouhani had been scheduled to visit France as part of a wider European trip this weekend but has postponed his plans. Indonesian President Joko Widodo, leader of the world’s most populous Muslim nation, said that”Indonesia condemns the violence that took place in Paris.”More spirited responses came from ordinary people. On Twitter, many referred to the hashtag #TerrorismHasNoReligion, seeking divorce Islam from the dogma espoused by extremists. Many cited the Quran to prove their point.
Paris terror: Muslim leaders around the world condemn 'heinous' attacksMuslim leaders around the world have condemned the Paris attacks that left 127 people dead and as many as 80 people fighting for their lives in critical conditions. Many of the denunciations came before Isis released a statement claiming responsibility for the attacks that have devastated the French capital and left many reeling. Iran’s president Hassan Rouhani condemned the attacks, calling them a “crime against humanity” and said he would postpone his plan to visit France as part of a wider European trip this weekend. The foreign minister for Qatar, Khaled al-Attiyah, labelled the atrocities “heinous”. Joko Widodo, the leader of Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim country, said his nation “condemns the violence that took place in Paris.”Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Sabah al-Sabah said the “criminal acts of terrorism” run “counter to all teachings of holy faith and humanitarian values.”In the UK, leader of the Muslim Council of Great Britain Dr Shuja Shafi, condemned the attacks “in the strongest possible terms,” labelling them “horrific and abhorrent”."My thoughts and prayers for the families of those killed and injured and for the people of France, our neighbours. This attack is being claimed by the group calling themselves 'Islamic State'. There is nothing Islamic about such people and their actions are evil, and outside the boundaries set by our faith.”
Muslims speak out against violence conducted in the name of IslamMuslims have taken to Twitter to show support for Parisians affected in the attacks, and to show that the terrorists are not a part of Islam after the attacks in Paris on Friday night. There were seven apparently co-ordinated terrorist attacks in the French capital on Friday night, and Isis took responsibility for the violence. People from all around the world, of all religions, have taken to social media to show solidarity with the French. Muslims have used social media to demonstrate that they want no part in the extremism and violence that terrorists commit in the name of Islam. The hashtags #NotInMyName and #IAmAMuslim are being used to say that extremists will not be tolerated and their messages of hate contradict the messages of peace that Muslims want to promote. Iran’s president Hassan Rouhani has condemned the attacks, calling them a “crime against humanity”. He said he would postpone his plan to visit France as part of a wider European trip this weekend. Joko Widodo, the leader of Indonesia,which is the world’s most populous Muslim country has spoken out against the attacks. He said his nation “condemns the violence that took place in Paris.”In the UK, leader of the Muslim Council of Great Britain Dr Shuja Shafi, condemned the attacks “in the strongest possible terms,” labelling them “horrific and abhorrent”."My thoughts and prayers for the families of those killed and injured and for the people of France, our neighbours. This attack is being claimed by the group calling themselves 'Islamic State'. There is nothing Islamic about such people and their actions are evil, and outside the boundaries set by our faith.”
After Paris Attacks, a Darker Mood Toward Islam Emerges in FrancePARIS — November is not January. That thought has been filtering through the statements of most French politicians and the news media, and most people seem to understand. Unlike the response in January after attacks at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and elsewhere left 17 dead, there were no grand public appeals for solidarity with Muslims after the Friday attacks that left 129 dead in Paris. There were no marches, few pleas not to confuse practitioners of Islam with those who preach jihad. Instead, there was a palpable fear, even anger, as President François Hollande asked Parliament to extend a state of emergency and called for changing the Constitution to deal with terrorism. It was largely unspoken but nevertheless clear: Secular France always had a complicated relationship with its Muslim community, but now it was tipping toward outright distrust, even hostility. The shift could be all the more tempting because the government is struggling to find its footing politically as it is threatened on its far right by the anti-immigrant National Front party. Already, tough talk from officials in the government shows them shifting rightward, calling for new scrutiny of mosques, extending the state of emergency and possibly placing restrictions on the 10,000 or more people loosely indexed as possible threats to the state. France needs to “expel all these radicalized imams,” Prime Minister Manuel Valls declared Saturday. France had already been expelling handfuls of imams in recent years. But the attacks have not ceased, and experts point out that the paths to radicalization more typically run through the prisons or the war in Syria, not the mosques. At the same time, there are whiffs of hardening feelings — mosque desecrations over the weekend, and harsh words between non-Muslims and Muslims in the crowds mourning. The concern among Muslims in France is palpable. “We’re already feeling the backlash. It started right away,” said Latetia Syed, 17, whose family gathered on Sunday near the Bataclan concert hall, where 89 people were killed on Friday, to pay respect to the victims. “There was a flood of violent language on Facebook to kill Muslims.”France’s imams “are all worried,” said Hassen Farsadou, the head of a group of Muslim associations in the Paris suburbs. “We are trying to figure out how to handle this.”Fear and suspicion are pervasive. “Today, I went to the gym, and I was wearing my helmet,” said Aykut Kasaroglu, a shop worker in the immigrant-rich Montreuil district. “The policeman stopped me and told me to take it off so they could see me. Everyone is suspicious.”The grim public mood, with hardened jaws and frowns on the emptied streets, is bubbling up. Deep shades of distinction that previously separated France’s political groupings — left, right and far right — on how to handle the terrorist threat, or even how to deal with France’s large Muslim community, are blurring.“We know, and it is cruel to say it, that on Friday it was French who killed other French,” Mr. Hollande told a rare joint emergency session of Parliament on Monday. “There are, living on our soil, individuals who from delinquency go on to radicalization and then to terrorist criminality.”Similar words, references to France’s “enemy within,” recently have provoked an uproar, particularly on the left. But this time Mr. Hollande’s speech was met with universal applause, a singing of the national anthem and some rare praise from the far-right National Front leader, Marine Le Pen. As for the audience newly receptive to Ms. Le Pen, “certainly it will grow,” said Bernard Godard, a leading French expert on Franco-Muslim relations and former Interior Ministry official. Anti-Muslim feelings that had been kept under wraps may no longer be so discreet, Mr. Godard suggested. On Sunday, tensions flared when a Frenchman, approaching a group of Muslim women in head scarves who were paying homage to the Bataclan victims at a makeshift shrine, began inveighing against the Quran as a source of inspiration for extremists.“The Quran says that nobody can take a life,” said one of the women, Abiba Trabacke, who was wearing a blue head scarf. She likened the killers to Nazis, adding: “They have nothing to do with us.”But the man persisted, and several women in the entourage burst into tears. “We are calling for peace and love,” one said.“Shut up!” a bystander yelled at them. “This is not the time to get into this.”Mrs. Trabacke turned to the growing crowd. “You see this head scarf that I’m wearing?” she asked. “This is my conviction; it comes from God.”How this might play out in coming weeks is hinted at in rapidly evolving propositions for how best to use the notorious “S files,” an index of thousands of people considered possible threats to the state — on the basis of dubious associations, for instance, or even online threats. At least one of the attackers at the Bataclan, Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, was on the S list; so were the two brothers who shot up Charlie Hebdo in January and a train attacker thwarted by three Americans in August. Each time, there has been an outcry in France over why a dangerous individual known to the state was not stopped beforehand. Each time officials have explained that a place in the S files is not the basis for an arrest. Since Friday, there have been the customary calls from the right and far right for crackdowns on the lists’s members, with a top National Front functionary on television Monday seeming to call for imprisoning all of them. The former President Nicolas Sarkozy suggested electronic monitoring. But this time the left-wing government was careful not to dismiss a heightened role for the S files.“You can’t dismiss any tool,” Mr. Valls, the prime minister, said on radio about the files. “We are not setting aside any solutions.” As his boss, Mr. Hollande, put it to lawmakers on Monday, “With the acts of war of Nov. 13, the enemy has crossed a new line.”The question, rights advocates say, is how far the government can go in restricting the rights of a mostly law-abiding minority without further alienating its more marginal members and driving them to the militants. The Socialist government, with its intensified bombing campaign in Syria and its promises of an internal crackdown, is trying to stay ahead of a deeply uneasy public. But experts say its efforts may not be enough. Ms. Le Pen’s criticism of Mr. Hollande on Monday may be more significant than her unusual praise. The president had failed to mention the “fight against Islamism” or the “indispensable cleaning out of the cellars and suburbs gangrened by criminality,” she said. In the National Front lexicon, Ms. Le Pen’s words — “suburbs” and “criminality” — are often code for Islam and Muslims.“There is a serious risk, in public opinion, that people will become more radical,” Mr. Godard said. “Maybe people will now say, ‘No, no, no Islam in the public space, not anymore.’”
Paris-style ISIS attacks could hit anywhere, including CanadaCo-ordinated attacks on civilian targets like the deadly assaults in Paris are a "jihadist fantasy" because they stoke maximum fear and can be executed anywhere, including Canada, experts warn. Wesley Wark, a security expert and professor at the University of Ottawa, said it is inherently difficult to guard against suicide bombs and shooting rampages at cafés, sporting events and entertainment venues."You can't harden them through security barriers and use of force. You have to depend on good intelligence and analysis and proportionate responses to known threats," he told CBC News."Civilian soft targets are the ultimate symbolic targets. In the minds of ISIS and related jihadist groups, the objective is to sow sufficient fear and discord through terror attacks that countries will lose the will to fight back."The fact that they cause widespread fear and require tight security at normally open venues makes these types of attacks a "jihadist fantasy," Wark said. While they could happen anywhere in the world, he said ISIS would have a target list of countries."Canada could fall on the target list, depending on opportunity, but Islamic State-directed attacks against Canada are less likely than those focused on Europe, including Russia now and U. S.," he said. "Islamic State tried to claim a propaganda victory around the Trudeau government's decision to end its air campaign contribution. We will have to see whether the Liberals will now have to rethink that policy."The attacks have already touched off a political debate over the Liberal government's decision to withdraw Canada from the U. S.-led air war against ISIS in Iraq and Syria. In his mandate letter from Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Friday, new Defence Minister Harjit Sajjan was instructed to make the withdrawal a priority, though no time frame was specified. The NDP supports an end to the mission, but Conservative Party interim leader Rona Ambrose is demanding the Liberal government reverse its decision."Canada has been rightly providing both military and humanitarian aid to the region, and we believe it's important to do both," she said during a news conference Saturday. In an interview with CBC News last week, Sajjan said Canada must contribute to the defeat of ISIS, but he rejected the idea that Canadians should be afraid of the jihadist organization."ISIS is a threat, no doubt about that. Should we fear it? No. The Canadian population should have full confidence in all the security services to keep us safe," he said. But Aisha Ahmad, a political science professor at the University of Toronto, said extremist organizations will continue to use the "style" of soft-target attacks to advance their strategic goals."The objective of these attacks is not simply to kill people. That's just the trigger," she said. "Rather, each of these murderous acts is a chess move in their global game. We know that they are desperately counting on a particular reaction from the states they target."As for whether Canada is doing enough to prevent an attack on domestic ground, Ahmad said there is no "magic silver bullet" to deal with this virulent global threat. But, she said, the new government is already building relations with researchers who understand the situation on the ground."We will all need to work together to devise strategies on this new, hypermodern security crisis," she said. Kyla Cham, a security expert at the Toronto-based Mackenzie Institute, believes the attacks in Paris could just as easily have taken place in Canada and that this is becoming the new norm for jihadist warfare."Civilian soft targets are often not expecting an attack, and once attacked, are often unable to protect themselves," she said. "This is what makes civilian soft targets so appealing to people who commit acts of terrorism. They try to show their power and strength by targeting those who are helpless."The RCMP is urging Canadians to be extra vigilant and to report suspicious activity in the wake of the attacks. Wark expects the internal threat level will be raised here in Canada and that security personnel from CSIS, RCMP and possibly CSE will be sent to France to liaise and learn what they can on the ground.
Paris attacks won’t affect Trudeau’s stance on refugees, fighter jetsThe deadly terror attacks in Paris will not lead Canada to change course on its two main policies in relation to Syria: welcoming 25,000 refugees this year and ending Canada’s bombing campaign in Iraq and Syria. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau arrived in Turkey Saturday for a meeting of G20 world leaders that is now expected to be dominated by debate over how the international community should respond to the wave of attacks. Mr. Trudeau did not speak to reporters Saturday, but a senior official from the Prime Minister’s Office confirmed Saturday evening that the government stands by its refugee plan and its position on the role Canada should play in the Syrian conflict. The deadly spree of violence presents a clear challenge to Canada’s new Prime Minister given that he had said he would use the summit as an opportunity to promote the humanitarian and economic benefits of fast-tracking 25,000 Syrian refugees into Canada before the end of the year. However a Greek minister told Reuters that the holder of a Syrian passport that was found near the body of one of the Paris gunmen entered Europe via Greece on Oct. 3. Reuters reported that the not-yet-identified gunman was among a group of 69 refugees who were fingerprinted by authorities on the tiny Greek island of Leros, which has been overwhelmed by the arrival of thousands of refugees. The new Canadian government has struck a special cabinet subcommittee to manage the refugee issue and the settlement plan is expected to include a major role for the Canadian military. Finance Minister Bill Morneau, who is also attending the G20 meetings, told Canadian reporters late Saturday that issues of security and refugees will understandably take on greater importance at the meeting than previously planned."The discussion of refugees was always intended to be on the agenda. The discussion around financing of terrorist activity was always intended to be on the agenda. So I suspect we will spend more time talking about those issues than we might have otherwise and that would be entirely appropriate given the terrible tragedy in Paris," he said. On Friday evening before leaving Ottawa just as news of the Paris shootings was coming to light, Mr. Trudeau was asked whether he would reconsider withdrawing Canada’s CF-18s from the fight against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria or repealing parts of Bill C-51, Canada’s anti-terrorism legislation.“It’s too soon to jump to any conclusions,” he replied. “But obviously governments have a responsibility to keep their citizens safe while defending our rights and freedoms. And that balance is something that the Canadian government and indeed all governments around the world will be focusing on.”The official summit is not scheduled to begin until Sunday, however some leaders have already arrived for bilateral meetings. Mr. Trudeau is scheduled to meet Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto on Sunday and has meetings scheduled Monday with the leaders of China, Germany, Indonesia, Italy and Turkey. Mr. Trudeau is expected to speak inside the meeting Sunday on the topics of trade, energy and inclusive growth, according to the PMO official.
Canada sticks to refugee plan but security pressures mount after Paris attacksThe landmark CN Tower is lit blue, white and red in the colors of the French flag following Paris attacks, in Toronto November 13, 2015. In the wake of the series of attacks in Paris on Friday, a number of politicians in Europe and North America have been warning that countries are taking a big risk by allowing in many thousands of refugees without rigorously determining whether any could be dangerous radicals. News that at least one of the Paris assailants may have been among refugees who passed through Greece has heightened those concerns. Trudeau, who last month won an election fought partly on security and the refugee issue, on Sunday said “Canada is pleased to be stepping up” to take in the refugees and will integrate them into the country. “We will be accepting 25,000 Syrian refugees between now and January 1st," Trudeau said in the written text of a speech at the G20 major powers summit in Turkey. The debate has been particularly heated in the mainly French-speaking province of Quebec, which - like France - has a large North African immigrant community and is grappling with concerns about radicalization of Muslim youth. Last year, two Quebec-born Muslim converts staged separate attacks on Canadian soldiers, near Montreal and on Parliament Hill in Ottawa, killing two. An online petition asking the government to suspend the plan to bring in the refugees was launched on Saturday by a Quebec City resident worried about “jihadists infiltrating” the country, according to Le Soleil newspaper. It had garnered more than 33,000 signatures by late on Sunday afternoon on the www.petitions24.net website.“If we want to help these people well, help them at home, building a camp over there and help there,” wrote one person on the French-language petition. “Short and long term it is unreasonable and dangerous to let them in here."Quebec City’s plan to accept about 200 Syrian families was controversial even before the Paris attacks. Last week, a banner reading "Refugees: No thanks" was hung over an overpass near the city before being removed. The opposition Conservatives, defeated last month after nine years in government, urged Trudeau to make sure it guarded Canada's security as it brought in the refugees."Canadians are asking the question, 'Can we do this quickly in a secure way?' And I think that's an important question," interim Conservative leader Rona Ambrose said in Ottawa. The Conservatives had pushed for a slower refugee intake, citing security concerns, before losing office. Security screening on the refugees will be done before they arrive in Canada but some will only be able to get screened after they arrive, Canada’s public safety minister Ralph Goodale said a day before the Paris attacks. It was not immediately clear what the screening process, which includes health assessments, entails in security checks. Those will be done by Canada’s spy agency, Canada Border Services Agency and Royal Canadian Mounted Police. In the United States, which has committed to take 10,000 Syrian refugees over the next year, vetting includes face-to-face interviews, a health screening and security checks that can take as long as two years. Canada plans to bring Syrian refugees from camps in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, the immigration minister John McCallum has said, via a combination of commercial and military aircraft and, potentially, ships."How will 1000 per day be screened?" Michelle Rempel, a former Conservative legislator, asked McCallum on Twitter. "What parts of the process will be dropped?"On Sunday, Goodale said the first round of checks would be done by the United Nations' refugee agency.“Then we have our own, and we check all of the available information against all of the available databases to make absolutely certain about who we're dealing with,” he told a CTV News political show, adding: “Can it be 100 percent foolproof?  Well, nothing in life is 100 percent, but we're satisfied that the process is strong and robust.”Christine Duhaime, a Vancouver-based terrorism financing expert, said the government "has to either assume the risk or slow down the process" and take in a smaller number of refugees whose identity can be confirmed by border agents. Friday’s deadly attacks in the French capital reignited a global debate over radical Islam and the risk that militants can slip in among refugees escaping violence in the Middle East for the West."We should slow down and think twice, thrice or however many times it takes to be safe," said Juliet Quizzagan, a home care worker in Vancouver, who was interviewed outside a train station. Some populist leaders around Europe demanded an end to an influx of refugees and migrants from the Middle East and Africa on Saturday after the Paris attacks claimed by Islamic State militants. Canadian public sympathy for Syrian refugees was galvanized after the body of a Syrian toddler washed up on a Turkish beach in September and it emerged his family had been trying to emigrate to Canada. A spokesman for Quebec’s Immigration Minister Kathleen Weil said the province would maintain the goal announced in September of accepting 2,400 sponsored refugees within the next few weeks. In Montreal, signs of solidarity with France were everywhere, including French flags affixed to balconies and posters carried at vigils. Some of the people at the vigils said accepting more Syrian refugees was the right thing to do. Rachid Ajdahim, 18, who lives in Montreal and is of Moroccan heritage, said the Canadian government must screen refugees to ensure they do not pose a risk but still provide them with a safe haven. “If we don’t bring them here, then where will they go?” he said. Several communities across Canada, including military bases, were preparing for the Syrian refugees. The Immigration Department hosted a conference call with community organizations on Friday to lay the groundwork for their arrival. While details are sparse, Air Canada has offered to airlift refugees and both the military and civilian groups are preparing to feed, clothe and house them as winter hits. Some 3,000 refugees are expected in Alberta, the heartland of Canada's energy industry. Calgary Mayor Naheed Nenshi, the first Muslim mayor of a major North American city, dismissed social media posts that linked the Paris attack with Syrian refugees. Asked whether he wanted a majority of refugees to be housed in downtown Calgary, Nenshi tweeted: "They're trying to escape the same people who perpetuate this kind of violence. So, yes."
Paris attacks test Liberal pledge to end ISIS combat missionANTALYA, TURKEY—Prime Minister Justin Trudeau arrived at a G20 leaders’ summit that has been overshadowed by the brazen terror attacks in Paris, a killing spree blamed on Islamic State extremists that will test the commitment of the new Liberal government to end its combat mission against the militants. Friday’s co-ordinated attacks in Paris — and the global response — are certain now to push security to the top of the agenda as the leaders of the world’s 20 major economies gather in this resort city for a summit that begins Sunday. Trudeau did not speak to reporters here Saturday. But a spokesperson said that the attacks would not change the Liberal government’s stance on two key pledges – a promise to take in 25,000 Syrian refugees and a vow to end the combat mission. Still, the murders put a sharp focus on the Liberal election pledge to withdraw CF-18 fighters from their mission bombing extremists in Iraq and Syria at the very time other allies look to step up their fight following the Paris attack. The heads of state of the European Union vowed to “do what is necessary” to defeat extremism. “We will face this threat together with all necessary means and ruthless determination,” the leaders said in a statement. Germany Chancellor Angela Merkel pledged her country’s support for France, saying, “together with you, we will fight against those who have carried out such an unfathomable act against you.”Still, by Saturday night, the Liberal government was standing firm on its pledge to end the combat mission that began just over a year ago under the Conservatives. Instead, the attacks in Paris have provided Trudeau with a swift and sobering introduction to the terror file at a time when the Liberals were already promising changes on this front, ending the combat mission abroad and rewriting parts of the Conservatives’ controversial anti-terror legislation. Security was already on the agenda here, put there by summit host Turkey which been suffering the effects of the violence in its two southern neighbours. The civil war in Syria and the terror campaign by the Islamic State group in Iraq has pushed more than million refugees to seek refuge in Turkey. Also on the agenda was the financing of terrorist groups. Defence analyst Dave Perry conceded that the optics of pulling out CF-18s at this time are “troublesome” but said Canada’s military can play other, potentially more valuable roles in the Islamic State fight. He noted that air power alone was never going to defeat extremists and that it would always require well-trained local forces to reclaim territory in Iraq. He said there is “ample room” for Canada to add to the 70 military trainers it already has in northern Iraq as well as step up its logistical support, providing, for example, transport aircraft to help move troops and supplies.
Paris attacks: What we know so far(CNN) The Paris attacks that killed at least 129 people continued to prompt raids and arrests in Europe and airstrikes in Syria . They've also spurred pledges of support from around the globe, while skepticism of Syrian refugees is sprouting in a number of American states. Many nations also find themselves at heightened terror alerts after ISIS released a video promising more attacks and the CIA director said Paris wasn't likely a "one-off event."Here's the latest we've learned from officials and local news reports:-- NEW: French warplanes carried out a new round of airstrikes on ISIS targets in Syria on Tuesday, the French Defense Ministry said. Activists had previously reported a series of aerial bombings early Tuesday in the ISIS stronghold of Raqqa, in northern Syria. There were seven airstrikes and at least three major explosions, according to the collective known as Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently, which has documented ISIS atrocities in the city. The French military had already conducted a series of airstrikes in Raqqa on Sunday and Monday.-- At least 26 U. S. states have said they won't accept any refugees from Syria. The State Department said it is taking the governors' concerns seriously, but it remains "steadfastly committed" to bringing in 10,000 refugees next year, spokesman Mark Toner said. Officials in six states say they'll continue accepting Syria's refugees.-- Three teams of terrorists staged coordinated attacks at six locations throughout Paris late Friday, including a concert hall, the Stade de France and at least two restaurants, Paris prosecutor Francois Molins said. At least 352 people were wounded in the attacks, 99 of them seriously. Seven terrorists were killed, one fewer than ISIS said were involved, Molins said.-- The Paris attacks were planned in Syria and organized in Belgium, French President Francois Hollande said. Six of the Paris attackers spent time in Syria, according to CNN affiliate BFMTV in France.-- Authorities have said they believe at least one suspect in the attacks is still on the loose. Salah Abdeslam was stopped near the Belgian border by French police shortly after the Paris attacks Friday night, but he was not a suspect at that time and was let go, sources told CNN.-- Two cars -- a black Seat, and a black Volkswagen Polo registered in Belgium -- appear to have been used in the Paris attacks. The Polo was rented by Salah Abdeslam, who was in a different vehicle when he was intercepted at the Belgian border, and the Seat was found in the eastern Paris suburb of Montreuil with three Kalashnikov automatic rifles inside, CNN affiliate BFMTV reported.-- The dead attackers identified by officials so far are 28-year-old Samy Amimour, 29-year-old Ismael Omar Mostefai and Bilal Hadfi, who sources say was 19 or 20.-- The French newspaper Le Monde reports that Ibrahim Abdeslam, Salah's older brother, was a suicide bomber whose explosives detonated at a cafe on boulevard Voltaire in eastern Paris. The Paris prosecutor's office has identified that attacker as a 31-year-old French citizen but hasn't disclosed his name.-- The Paris attackers rented an apartment in the suburb of Bobigny for a week before they launched Friday's coordinated series of shootings and explosions, according to multiple reports in French media. The apartment was reportedly rented by Ibrahim Abdeslam.-- Twenty-three people are in custody and weapons, including a rocket launcher, and IT equipment have been seized after more than 150 police anti-terror raids were carried out in cities across France since Friday, said French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve, who has ordered 104 people be put under house arrest.-- Five of seven people detained over the weekend in Belgium were released by a judge, officials said. The two still detained are under arrest for "attempted terrorism and participation in the activities of a terrorist group," the country's federal prosecutor said.-- Mohammed Abdeslam, the brother of suspects Salah and Ibrahim Abdeslam, was among the five people released. He told CNN affiliate BFMTV that his parents are in shock and "do not realize yet what has happened. My family and I are affected by what happened. We found out by TV just like many of you. We did not think for a moment that one of our brothers was related to these attacks."-- The iconic Eiffel Tower lit up in Paris Monday in the colors of the French flag. Other landmarks around the world have done the same in a showing of solidarity. "Tonight, we are all Parisians," U. S. Secretary of State John Kerry said at a lighting ceremony at the U. S. Embassy in Paris.-- Hollande addressed a joint session of the French Parliament -- only the third time a president has done so since 1848 -- and said he would seek to add 5,000 positions to the country's paramilitary police force.-- Hollande declared a state of emergency across France, which lets authorities limit people's movements and impose zones of security and protection. Hollande would like to see his country's state of emergency in place for three months, and he proposed measures that would allow France to deport suspected terrorists or strip them of their citizenship, even if they were born in the country, he said.-- The French government announced tightened border controls, put the gendarmerie paramilitary police on heightened alert and ordered 1,500 military troops to join already increased security forces. France intends to continue airstrikes against ISIS in Syria, and the arrival of aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle will triple the country's ability to carry out those strikes, Hollande said.-- Belgian officials called off a scheduled football match in Brussels on Tuesday between Belgium and Spain because of security concerns. Belgium has raised its terrorist alert level to 3 (out of a maximum of 4), the country's Interior Ministry's Crisis Center said late Monday.-- British Prime Minister David Cameron announced a plan for $3 billion in additional funding to be spent on the country's military forces to fight terrorism. He also addressed a controversial bill that he says will ensure that British authorities have powers to follow terrorist movements by tracking and intercepting communications."The more we learn about what happened in Paris, the more it justifies the approach that we are taking in Britain," Cameron said.-- London's Metropolitan Police will be increasing the number of officers on patrol at Tuesday's England vs. France soccer match at Wembley Stadium.-- In a purported ISIS video, a fighter says the terror organization will "strike America in its own stronghold in Washington." The FBI and Department of Homeland Security say there's "no credible threat to the United States," but law enforcement officials in the U. S. capital say they're stepping up security. And CIA Director John Brennan said he would not consider the Paris attacks a "one-off event," and added, "I would anticipate this is not the only operation that (ISIS) has in the pipeline."-- U. S. House Speaker Paul Ryan said he has asked the Obama administration to provide a classified briefing for all House members.-- The United States and France will "bolster" their intelligence sharing, to the fullest extent of the law, Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook said. And Kerry vowed that ISIS will be defeated. "The United States and France are not only friends, we are family. And today, the entire world joins our family in heartbreak yet again," Kerry said."Don't mistake what these attacks represent. This is not a clash of civilizations. These terrorists have declared war against all civilization. ... This is an assault not just on France, but coming on the heels of brutal attacks in Lebanon, Iraq and elsewhere, it is an assault on our collective sense of reason and purpose, an attack on civility itself."-- The French air force carried out bombing missions over Raqqa Sunday and Monday against strategic ISIS targets. France was already part of a U. S.-led coalition conducting airstrikes on ISIS, and since Friday's attacks, French officials have vowed to fight back.-- Around the world, Obama pledged solidarity with France, Pope Francis condemned the killings, British Prime Minister David Cameron convened a meeting of the emergency response committee, Russian leader Vladimir Putin sent condolences to France, The Netherlands increased border security and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel "stands shoulder to shoulder to France."Support for Paris swells from around the world
Global stock markets to fall after Paris attacksEuropean and Asian stock markets were expected to fall sharply on Monday amid fears that the terror attacks in Paris would hurt Europe’s economic recovery. Financial analysts predicted that markets would be rattled by the attacks, in which 129 people died and hundreds more were injured. Middle Eastern markets have already fallen, with Saudi Arabia’s main index hitting a 35-month low on Sunday. European markets are on track to shed 2% when trading begins, with the French market likely to bear the brunt of the sell-off. A full-blown financial crash was not expected, though, with economists hopeful that the French people would remain resilient following the worst terror attack in Europe for a decade.“We are going to get off to a negative start in Asia, and then Europe will follow,” said Chris Weston, chief market strategist at IG. “But I don’t think we’ll see panic selling following the tragic events in Paris.”“The tragedy has a lot of people asking questions, at a time when markets are already starting to look vulnerable after a strong October,” he added. A 2% fall would wipe more than 100 points off Britain’s FTSE 100, sending it down to a six-week low. Several Middle Eastern stock markets fell sharply on Sunday, with investors from Cairo to Dubai selling shares following Friday’s attacks. The benchmark Saudi index, or Tadawul, shed almost 3% to its lowest level since the first trading day of 2013. Traders said falling oil prices last week had helped to push shares down, reflecting fears that the global economy is weakening. Egypt’s main index, the EGX 30, tumbled by over 4%. The United Arab Emirates’ market shed 3.6% with many stocks suspended after slumping 10%, the daily limit. The Paris stock market was scheduled to open as normal on Monday, despite the co-ordinated attacks across the capital on Friday night. Yogi Dewan, the chief executive of Hassium Asset Management, also predicted that shares would fall sharply. He told Bloomberg he “wouldn’t be surprised to see markets down 2% to 3%, maybe even more”.“Sectors will be impacted in Europe such as insurance, travel and leisure,” Dewan added. Economists fear that French consumer confidence will be hurt by the atrocities in Paris, hurting an economy that returned to growth this autumn after stagnating over the summer.“It is obviously likely to significantly hit the Paris economy in the near term, and there could also be a knock-on effect elsewhere in France,” said Howard Archer of IHS Global Insight. “There could also be an adverse impact on tourism in some European countries where people think attacks are most likely to occur – not just in France.”However, Archer believes France will avoid being pulled back into recession.“As horrific as these events are – and this is truly awful – economic activity does tend to be pretty resilient. The UK, Spain and France itself has all seen its economies little damaged by terrorist atrocities in the past.“At the end of the day, people have to get on with their lives. And that is the best way of putting up two fingers to the terrorists.”The attacks also raise the chances that the European Central Bank will announce new stimulus measures next month, to combat fears that the eurozone could sink back into deflation. Michael Hewson of CMC Markets said further action was “pretty much inevitable”.“The impact on consumer confidence could well be considerable, and anything that causes European consumers to retrench further is likely to be a significant concern for a European Central Bank already concerned about deflation and a lack of demand,” he said.
Stocks Fall With Euro on Paris Attack as Haven Trade Lifts BondsStocks fell around the world and the euro slipped as investors responded to Europe’s worst terror attack in a decade by trimming positions in riskier assets. Demand for havens boosted gold and government bonds. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped to a three-week low and Europe’s common currency weakened 0.2 percent as the violence in Paris on Friday sparked concern that geopolitical tensions will hurt trade and consumer confidence. Chinese shares in Hong Kong led losses in Asian equity markets after authorities restricted the use of borrowed money to buy shares, while U. S. index futures slipped. Gold advanced the most in a month and Treasuries climbed for a fifth day. Oil halted two weeks of losses as France dispatched warplanes to bomb Islamic State’s stronghold in Syria. The attacks on Paris came at a fraught time for global markets. Key economic reports from Japan, the European Union and China trailed estimates over the past week, while traders have maintained bets that the Federal Reserve will increase interest rates in December. Bulls may find some solace in the history of terror incidents around the world over the last 15 years, which shows market reactions have become increasingly short-lived.“The market was in a fragile state before the attack, and the damage to investor sentiment is showing,” Nader Naeimi, the Sydney-based head of dynamic asset allocation at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which oversees about $112 billion, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “Having said that, we are in a world that’s getting increasingly used to acts of terror. This time, the reaction is likely to be just short term.”Islamic State, which has also claimed responsibility for blasts in Beirut and the downing of a Russian passenger jet in Egypt, is urging people based in Belgium “to act on French territory and in other European cities,” France’s interior minister said. While the nation’s stock exchange opened as usual on Monday, Europe is on high alert after at least 129 people were killed in more than half a dozen locations in the French capital. Ten of the country’s fighter jets struck targets Sunday evening in Syria, hitting a command base, according to the Defense Ministry. The Stoxx 600 dropped 0.8 percent at 8:02 a.m. London time, led by tourism-related companies and retailers. France’s CAC 40 Index declined 1.2 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures retreated 0.2 percent.“The latest attack may delay the European economic recovery,” said Peerapong Jirasevijinda, the chief investment officer at Bangkok-based BBL Asset Management Co., which oversees about $17 billion. “It will hit the tourism sector.”The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.1 percent, with the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index sliding 2 percent after the country’s two main exchanges doubled margin requirements. Japan’s Topix dropped 0.9 percent after data showing gross domestic product shrank a deeper-than-projected 0.8 percent in the third quarter. Mazda Motor Corp., which gets 20 percent of its revenue from Europe, retreated 2.4 percent. Shares of airline operators across Asia tumbled. The euro dropped toward a six-month low versus the dollar, nearly erasing its first weekly gain in a month. South Korea’s won slid 0.9 percent, while Japan’s yen swung between gains and losses.“The euro is under pressure as markets see recent events as destabilizing, and increase the uncertainty over the European economic outlook,” said Sam Tuck, a senior currency strategist at ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Auckland. The yuan strengthened 0.2 percent in Hong Kong’s offshore market amid speculation of dollar buying among large Chinese banks. International Monetary Fund staff recommended the yuan for a basket of reserve currencies, a move that Standard Chartered Plc estimates will lure more than $1 trillion to the nation’s assets in the next five years. The IMF executive board, scheduled to meet on Nov. 30, must approve any changes to the basket. Ten-year Treasuries advanced, with the yield declining two basis points to 2.25 percent. The rate on German bunds fell one basis points to 0.55 percent. Australia’s three-year bond yields declined six basis points to 2.09 percent.“We’ve had a bit of a flight-to-quality rally,” said John Gorman, the head of dollar debt trading for Asia and the Pacific at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Travel, tourism is going to slow down. We’ve already seen concerts that are being postponed. It affects consumer spending and it affects the economies.”The attacks probably won’t be enough to change the course of Fed policy as the U. S. central bank considers raising interest rates next month, Gorman said. Gold halted four days of losses, with bullion for immediate delivery advancing 1.1 percent to $1,095.53 an ounce. It rebounded from as low as $1,074.25 on Thursday, the least since February 2010. Crude oil rose 0.3 percent to $40.84 per barrel in New York as geopolitical tension spurred by the Paris attacks countered data on Friday showing U. S. drillers put rigs back to work for the first time since August. Syria’s oil output was less than 25,000 barrels a day in May, after averaging more than 400,000 barrels a day between 2008 and 2010, according to estimates from the Energy Information Administration. The nation borders Iraq, the biggest producer after Saudi Arabia in OPEC.
Paris attacks: global stock markets braced for sell-offGlobal stock markets are headed for a sell-off on Monday after the deadliest attacks to hit France since the Second World War left more than 100 people dead and dozens injured. Stock market futures pointed to falls in Asia and Europe, as bourses across the Middle East recoiled on Sunday amid warnings that the terrorist attacks in Paris could spark a renewed bout of volatility. Last week, Britain's benchmark FTSE 100 index suffered its biggest weekly drop since mid-August's market panic as declining oil prices and subdued consumer confidence sparked a similar decline in the US. The Dubai stock market fell 3.7pc in afternoon trading on Sunday to a fresh 2015 low, while stocks in Saudi Arabia lost 2.6pc and Egypt's benchmark index dropped to a two-year low. Markets in Kuwait and Bahrain also fell. Sustained oil price weakness has already prompted concerns about the region’s outlook. Analysts said that falls in Asia and Europe were likely to tempered by the fact that markets were closed as the tragedy unfolded."If [the attacks] had happened during market trading hours there could have been a panic but markets had a weekend to digest all the information," said Eiji Kinouchi, an analyst at Daiwa Securities. The attack, which happened on Friday night, is expected to dominate the agenda of the two-day G20 meeting in Turkey, which began on Sunday. Leaders will also discuss plans to kick-start growth, although Francois Hollande, the French president, will not attend the summit in Antalya. A draft communique showed a renewed commitment to tackling the financial channels of terrorism through enhanced pooling of information and freezing assets. Leaders of the world's 20 richest economies are also expected to agree to step up border controls and airport security. Theresa May, the Home Secretary, described the terrorist threat to the UK as "severe", but added that intelligence agencies were working around the clock to keep Britons safe. "People should be alert but not alarmed," she said on Sunday. Analysts said the attack was likely to hit tourism in Paris, which could have consequences for the rest of France and Europe."The truly awful events in Paris could certainly have a significant negative impact on consumer confidence in the near term at least," said Howard Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS Global Insight."There could also be an adverse impact on tourism in some European countries where people think attacks are most likely to occur – not just in France."However, Mr Archer said history suggested economic activity would remain "pretty resilient". Analysts at Citi expect the economic impact on Europe from France's declaration of a state of emergency and border closures to be "most likely muted - but still GDP negative". In a note this weekend, they said: "Volatility should rise for Europe and for the Middle East."
Paris attacks seen causing short-term global markets dropA woman holding an umbrella looks at an electronic stock quotation board outside a brokerage in Tokyo September 8, 2015. If anything, any initial damage to economic confidence, tourism and trade within Europe will likely reinforce the European Central Bank's resolve to ease monetary policy further next month, they reckon. That will keep pressure on the euro exchange rate and support other European asset markets. French financial markets will be open as usual on Monday, stock and derivatives exchange Euronext said on Saturday. With many Parisian restaurants and shops shut on Saturday and Sunday, some local analysts expected any French equity reaction to be more visible than after January's attacks against the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine and a Kosher supermarket."Stocks that are angled towards consumer goods or tourism, notably the luxury industry with the Christmas season, could be affected," said IG France analyst Alexandre Baradez."The January (attacks) were different, they were more targeted. Here they were aiming at an entire population," he added. "There may also be a purely psychological effect that pushes investors to stay on the sidelines until more clarity emerges."Equity futures moved lower at the open on Sunday night in New York time, adding to losses posted as the attacks unfolded after markets closed on Friday. They soon pared some of those Sunday losses. The Nikkei stock index . N225 fell 0.8 percent after having fallen as much as 1.8 percent earlier in the Monday session. Mohamed El-Erian, chief economic adviser at Allianz, said: "With the horrible tragedy leading to some short-term restraint to French GDP, equity markets are likely to open lower with both government yields and the euro falling."Concern about similar attacks beyond France and tensions surrounding a stepped-up Western military response to the actions of Islamic State point to some ripple effect around world markets."These Paris terrorist attacks and the larger scale of this attack could have a meaningful negative impact on the travel and tourism sector," said Robert T. Lutts, chief investment officer at Cabot Wealth Management in Salem, Massachusetts. France has the largest number of tourists in the world and the sector accounts for almost 7.5 percent of GDP. If increased national security causes trade friction, longer-term commercial effects also "bode ill for the euro," said Brian Battle, director of trading at Performance Trust Capital Partners in Chicago."France closed the borders. For how long and what degree will determine the effects," he said. "The question is will other countries follow this policy, maybe as a political cover to impede immigration."Outside France, few expect a jolt as significant as the hiatus after 2001's attacks that destroyed the World Trade Centre in New York City. In foreign exchange markets trading in Asia, the euro was slightly lower against the dollar and yen. Markets in the Middle East, which trade on Sunday, were hit hard, although part of that decline was due to recent falls in oil prices. Analysts trying to put the event in some historical context say prior events like this in Europe over the past 15 years tended not to have any durable market or economic effects."As horrific as these events are – and this is truly awful – economic activity does tend to be pretty resilient," said Howard Archer, chief UK and European economist at IHS Global Insight. He noted that the UK, Spain and France have all seen their economies "little damaged by terrorist atrocities in the past."One sector that could see a boost: defense. The sector is already doing better than U. S. equities as a whole, and "the prospect of more military action in Syria may help this group in the week ahead," said Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at the ConvergEx Group in New York."While the attack was in Europe, stocks all around the world will see pressure on Monday," he said. "The typical "risk off" trade is out of global stocks, and into global sovereign debt and the U. S. dollar."Traditional safety plays into assets such as U. S. Treasury bonds would also go against the prevailing market trend of discounting an interest rate rise from the Federal Reserve next month. With few expecting the fallout from the attack to be big enough to affect Fed decision making, any Monday move will likely be short lived. The benchmark U. S. Treasury futures contract TYc1 rose on Sunday to hit its highest since Nov. 6. U. S. 10-year Treasuries notes US10YT=RR yielded 2.273 percent at Friday's close. The euro EUR= was 0.5 percent lower against the greenback at $1.0718. One reason for a possible volatile move into Treasuries is because the Fed rate hike anticipation has prompted heavy short positions in the 10-year Treasury. That could exacerbate any move into safe-have government debt. Analysts at Citi say just the initial shock of the attacks may challenge extremely leveraged plays - such as heavy short positions in the euro or oil futures. But there was little reason to view that unwind as anything other than temporary."The market is heavily short euro and concerns are high any risk will trigger a short squeeze," Citi analysts told clients. "We don't think it will – and would sell into one if it appears. The attacks do not undermine the initial reasons for being short euro – or reduce the possibility of (ECB) action."While news of the attacks hit after markets closed on Friday, S&P 500 Index futures SPc1 were still trading and shed about 1 percent in light volume."If this had happened during market trading hours there could have been a panic but markets had a weekend to digest all the information," said Eiji Kinouchi, chief technical analyst at Daiwa Securities in Tokyo.
Paris massacre: At least 128 killed in gunfire and blasts, French officials sayParis (CNN)On a night when thousands of Paris residents and tourists were reveling and fans were enjoying a soccer match between France and world champion Germany, horror struck in an unprecedented manner. Terrorists -- some with AK-47s, some reportedly with bombs strapped to them -- attacked sites throughout the French capital and at the stadium where the soccer match was underway. ISIS claims responsiblity for Paris attacksScores were killed in the coordinated attacks late Friday, leaving a nation in mourning and the world in shock. CNN will update this story as information comes in:Complete coverage on the Paris attacks[Latest developments, posted at 11:59 p.m. ET]• Paris Prosecutor spokeswoman Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre said eight extremists are dead after attacks. Seven of them were killed in suicide bombings.• U. S. President Barack Obama spoke with French President Francois Hollande to offer condolences and assistance in the investigation, the White House said. Earlier, Obama said, "This is an attack not just on Paris, not just on the people on France, but an attack on all humanity and the universal values we share." He called the attacks an "outrageous attempt to terrorize innocent civilians."• A total of six locations were attacked in and just outside the capital, Paris prosecutor François Molins told reporters Saturday.• Five suspected attackers have been "neutralized," said Molins. It was unclear whether that term meant the terrorists were dead.• A witness tells Radio France that attackers inside the Bataclan concert hall entered firing rifles and shouting "Allah akbar."• At least 128 people were killed in the Paris and Saint-Denis shootings and bombings, French officials said. Saint-Denis is home to the national stadium where the soccer match was being played.• The worst carnage occurred at Bataclan, with at least 80 left dead. A journalist who was at a rock concert there escaped and told CNN: "We lied down on the floor not to get hurt. It was a huge panic. The terrorists shot at us for 10 to 15 minutes. It was a bloodbath." Julien Pearce didn't hear the attackers speak, but he said one friend who escaped heard them talk about Iraq and Syria. Later, he said the men were speaking French. Two men dressed in black started shooting and after wounded people fell to the floor, the gunmen shot them again, execution-style, he said.• CNN affiliate BFMTV, citing French officials, said some gunmen were still at large.• Charlotte Brehaut and a friend were dining in Le Petit Cambodge, a Cambodian restaurant, when the shooting started from the street, she told CNN. "All of a sudden we heard huge gunshots and glass coming through the windows. We ducked with the other diners," she said. She grabbed the arm of a woman on the floor. The woman didn't respond. The woman was shot in the chest and there was blood all around her. At least 14 people were killed in Le Petit Cambodge, authorities said. Inside the Bataclan: 'A bloodbath,' witness says• Four attackers were killed, including three who were wearing explosives belts, at Bataclan during the police raid, Paris police spokesman Michel Cadot told France Info radio.• There is great alarm over the apparent methodology and likely planning that would have been needed to pull off such a series of attacks, one U. S. counterterrorism official told CNN. The attacks resembled tactics that have been used by a number of terror groups -- including al Qaeda's focus on mass casualties and visibility, and the small, tactical nature of attacks that are more the hallmark of ISIS and its acolytes. It is still not clear who is responsible.• U. S. citizens in Paris who are safe are being asked by the State Department to call their families. Those Americans in France needing assistance should call 001-202-501-4444. Americans concerned about loved ones in Paris should call 1-888-407-4747. An official told CNN the hotline was flooded with calls. Impact Your World: How you can help those affected by the attacks• Michael Dorio, brother of a member of the band that was playing at the Bataclan concert, said he spoke to Eagles of Death Metal drummer Julian Dorio about 20-30 minutes after the attack. "He said he had been performing and heard the gunshots. They stopped playing and hit the deck and went backstage and exited," Michael Dorio told CNN.• BFMTV reports that SWAT units stormed Bataclan and that the siege was over. Two attackers were killed, a police union said. Police brought out at least 100 hostages from the concert hall, a CNN producer said; some appear to be wounded. Hollande told reporters outside Bataclan that "terrorists capable of carrying out such atrocities must know that they will face a France that is determined and united."• Deputy Mayor Patrick Klugman told CNN the death toll is going to rise significantly. "We are facing an unknown and historic situation in Paris," he said.• Hollande called the events "unprecedented terrorist attacks" and added, "This is a horror." In a tweet, he said, "Faced with terror, this is a nation that knows how to defend itself, how to mobilize its forces and once again, knows how to overcome the terrorists."• One of the explosions at the Stade de France, home of the French national sports teams, outside Paris appears to be a suicide bombing, a Western intelligence source receiving direct intelligence from the scene told CNN's Deb Feyerick. A dismembered body, consistent with the aftermath of an explosion from that type of device, was found at the scene, the source said. Watch: Explosion heard at Paris soccer game• People were inviting people off the streets into their apartments, reports Philip Crowther, Washington correspondent for France 24.• Traffic on several subway lines has been interrupted following the attacks, the Paris police prefecture reported.• There is no credible or specific threat in the United States, according to a U. S. government official. An FBI spokesperson said the agency and the Department of Homeland Security were closely monitoring the unfolding events.• Hollande, in an address to the nation, said he had declared a state of emergency, meaning border security will be ramped up. "We have to show compassion and solidarity and we also have to show unity and keep our cool. France must be strong and great," he said. Multiple attacks in Paris32 photos: Night of terror: Paris attacks• The Paris prefecture of police instructed residents to stay home. The prefecture said via Twitter that people should stay inside "unless there's an absolute necessity."Facebook activates 'Safety Check' for users during attack• French authorities have launched a terrorism investigation, Eric Pelletier, a reporter with Le Pariesien, tells CNN Paul Cruickshank. There has been no official claim of responsibility, though ISIS has applauded the attacks on Twitter, Cruickshank reports. Obama calls Paris attacks 'outrageous'• Russian leader Vladimir Putin sent his condolences to Hollande and the people of France. "Russia strongly condemns this inhumane killing and is ready to provide any and all assistance to investigate these terrorist crimes," he said.• Three explosions took place at the Stade de France, CNN affiliate BFMTV said.2016 hopefuls express shock, condolences• Counterterrorism officials around the United States convened secure conference calls to try to gather information, according to two U. S. counterterrorism officials. Immediate suspicion for the events in Paris falls to so-called returnees -- people who have traveled to Syria and Iraq and have returned, the officials said. In early January of this year, two gunmen attacked the Paris offices of the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing 12 and wounding 11. Said and Cherif Kouachi wanted to punish the magazine for the publication of cartoons that they believed mocked the Prophet Mohammed. The Kouachi brothers two days later were shot and killed in a standoff with police in Dammartin-en-Goele. Amedy Coulibaly, an associate of Said and Cherif Kouachi, attacked a Jewish grocery store in Paris, taking more than a dozen people hostage and killing four. Coulibaly had killed a policewoman the day before, on January 8. Coulibaly was killed when police stormed the kosher market.
Three Teams of Coordinated Attackers Carried Out Assault on Paris, Officials Say; Hollande Blames ISISPARIS — Three teams of Islamic State attackers acting in unison carried out the terrorist assault in Paris on Friday night, officials said Saturday, including one assailant who may have traveled to Europe on a Syrian passport along with the flow of migrants.“It is an act of war that was committed by a terrorist army, a jihadist army, Daesh, against France,” President François Hollande told the nation from the Élysée Palace, using an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State. “It is an act of war that was prepared, organized and planned from abroad, with complicity from the inside, which the investigation will help establish.”As the death toll rose to 129 — with 352 others wounded, 99 of them critically — a basic timeline of the attacks came into view. The Paris prosecutor, François Molins, said the attackers were all armed with assault rifles and suicide vests. Their assault began at 9:20 p.m. Friday, when one terrorist detonated a suicide bomb outside the gates of the soccer stadium on the northern outskirts of Paris. It ended at 12:20 a.m. Saturday when the authorities stormed a concert hall, the Bataclan. One attacker there was killed; two others detonated suicide vests. Inside the hall, 89 people, who had been listening to a rock band, had been shot to death. Continue reading the main storyLatest Updates20dMusic Fans‘ Long-Distance Romance Ended Tragically at the Bataclan11/27After Paris Attacks, Ties That Bind Patrons at a Cafe Also Burn11/25Retired Chauffeur’s Actions Spoke to His DevotionSee All UpdatesThe man with the Syrian passport — which Greek officials said had been registered at the Aegean island of Leros on Oct. 3 — was 25, and died at the stadium. Another assailant, who died at the concert hall, was 29 and a native of Courcouronnes, about 20 miles south of Paris. He had a criminal record and was known to be involved in extremist Islamic ideology, Mr. Molins said. Officials later identified him as Ismaël Omar Mostefaï and said they had detained several of his relatives for questioning. The hunt for possible accomplices of the terrorists gained steam on Saturday. Officials in Belgium announced three arrests, one of them linked to a rental car found in Paris. In Germany, the police were exploring whether a man they arrested last week with weapons in his car and his GPS navigator set for Paris was linked to the attacks. But it remained unclear how a plot of such sophistication and lethality could have escaped the notice of intelligence agencies, both in France and abroad. Mr. Hollande declared three days of national mourning, and said that military troops would patrol the capital. France remained under a nationwide state of emergency. Mr. Hollande vowed to “be unforgiving with the barbarians from Daesh,” adding that France would act within the law but with “all the necessary means, and on all terrains, inside and outside, in coordination with our allies, who are, themselves, targeted by this terrorist threat.”The attacks, and the possibility that the Islamic State was to blame, promised to further traumatize France and other European countries already fearful of violent jihadists radicalized by the conflicts in Syria and elsewhere. The possibility that one of the attackers was a migrant or had posed as one is sure to further complicate the already vexing problem for Europe of how to handle the unceasing flow of people from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. It could also lend weight to the xenophobic arguments of right-wing populists like Marine Le Pen, the leader of the National Front party, who on Saturday held a news conference to declare that “France and the French are no longer safe.”Mr. Hollande actively stepped up French participation in the military air campaign in Syria at the end of September. Just last week, France attacked oil operations under the Islamic State’s control in Syria. On Oct. 8, it conducted a targeted strike against militants in Raqqa, Syria, apparently against Salim Benghalem, a Frenchman fighting for the Islamic State. The attacks, and the threat of the Islamic State, are likely to dominate a summit meeting of leaders of the Group of 20 nations that starts on Sunday in Turkey. President Obama will attend; Mr. Hollande is staying in Paris and sending representatives. Paris, stricken by shock and grief, remained in a state of lockdown, with public transportation hobbled and public institutions — schools, museums, libraries, pools, food markets — closed. Charles de Gaulle Airport remained open, but with significant delays because of tighter passport and baggage checks. The archbishop of Paris, Cardinal André Vingt-Trois, said he would celebrate a Mass at the Cathedral of Notre-Dame on Sunday for the victims, their families and France. “Our country has once again known pain and mourning and must stand up to the barbarism propagated by fanatical groups,” he said. At the Hôpital Européen Georges-Pompidou in west Paris, about 40 people were in surgery as of the early afternoon. Julien Ribes, 33, was at the hospital to search for his friend, who was at the concert hall. “I’m in total shock,” he said. At the Town Hall for the 11th Arrondissement in Paris, Delphine de Peretti, 35, said she had learned early Saturday afternoon that her sister Aurélie, who was at the Bataclan music hall, had been killed. The family had been desperately trying to reach Aurélie all night.“They told us my sister was dead, but they did not let us see her,” she said. “They said they still have to do some medical analysis. I am like a robot. I don’t know what to do next. I have not watched the news or slept since last night.”The death toll far surpassed that of a massacre at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and related attacks by Islamic extremists around the French capital in January. Friday’s attacks were the deadliest in Western Europe since the 2004 train bombings in Madrid, which killed 191 people. And it prompted Mr. Hollande to pronounce a state of emergency, the first time in France since 2005, when riots rocked downtrodden urban areas across the country. Parisians were left struggling to make sense of their new reality. Parents whose children slept through the ordeal were facing the difficult task of trying to explain what had happened, and why so many planned activities had been canceled and public spaces were closed. On the Champ de Mars, at the base of the Eiffel Tower and along the pedestrian promenade that hugs the Left Bank of the Seine, joggers and cyclists tried to carry on with their Saturday routines. Pausing from her morning run near the Musée d’Orsay, Marie-Caroline de Richemont, 32, said she was still trying to process the events, but without succumbing to fear. “This is not Iraq or Afghanistan,” she said. “We are not at war here. We need to stay confident and hopeful.”Bertrand Bourgeois, 42, an accountant, was lost in thought as he cast a fishing line beneath the Invalides bridge. He normally avoids fishing in Paris, he said, preferring quieter sections of the Seine near his home in Poissy, a northwest suburb. But after the violence, he said he felt drawn to come into the city out of a sense of solidarity. Continue reading the main storyRECENT COMMENTSKhalid Masood Khan November 17, 2015‘Act of War’Killing of completely innocent people is repugnant to the teachings of all schools of human thought and belief. However, talking... Jimmianne, the spotted owl November 16, 2015Dear NYT, I have family in France. I cannot sleep so I wake up at 3am to check the news. There is nothing new this morning, but the... Annie Dooley November 15, 2015Western democracies and our Arab friends must get better at rooting out the terrorists in their midst, their own citizens. At the same time,... SEE ALL COMMENTSAlthough his wife asked him to stay home, “something in me felt like it was important to be here, to say ‘still alive,’ ” Mr. Bourgeois said.“I feel sickened, angry,” he said. Coming so soon after the attacks in January, he said, “It is starting to be too much.”On the Champs-Élysées, rows of Christmas market stalls stood shuttered. Several vendors stood idly, awaiting word about whether they would be allowed to open for business, while clutches of heavily armed police officers patrolled the largely empty sidewalks of one of Europe’s most famed avenues. At Charles de Gaulle Airport, it took two and a half hours for some passengers arriving Saturday morning to reach passport control. Some passengers who had arrived on overnight flights learned what had happened only when they switched on their devices; many read the news in a state of stunned silence. Pope Francis joined a chorus of world leaders — including the heads of government of Belgium, Burundi, Canada, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia, Spain and the United States — who have condemned the attacks.“There is no justification for such things, neither religious nor human, this is not human,” Francis said in a telephone call to TV2000, the television station of the Italian Episcopal Conference. “It is difficult to understand such things, done by human beings,” he added, clearly moved. Francis said he was praying for the families of the victims, for France “and for all those who suffer.”Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany gave an emotional national address on Saturday pledging solidarity with the French government and people, and calling on Europeans to stand together in defiance of an attack on the liberties the Continent represents.“We, your German friends, we are so close with you,” said Ms. Merkel, dressed in black. “We are crying with you. Together with you, we will fight against those who have carried out such an unfathomable act against you.”“Those who we mourn were murdered in front of cafes, in restaurants, in a concert hall or on the open street. They wanted to live the life of free people in a city that celebrates life,” she said, her voice breaking. “And they met with murderers who hate this life of freedom.”The French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, meeting on Saturday in Vienna with Secretary of State John Kerry and other top diplomats to discuss the continuing crisis in Syria, said the attacks highlighted the urgency of the talks. “It is more necessary than ever in the current circumstance to coordinate the international fight against terrorism,” he said. In the United States, there was no sign of a direct threat to American cities, but the F. B. I. was reviewing cases involving the Islamic State as a precaution. The F. B. I. will send a team of agents to Paris to assist with the investigation, law enforcement officials said. The F. B. I. is already heavily focused on the threat from Americans inspired by the militant group. The government had so many people under surveillance in those cases that, this spring, officials pulled agents off other cases to help monitor them. Correction: November 22, 2015Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about an announcement by French officials that the recent terrorist attacks had been carried out by three teams of Islamic State jihadists operating in unison erroneously attributed a distinction to the attacks. They were the deadliest in Western Europe since the 2004 train bombings in Madrid, not the deadliest in all of Europe. (The 2004 school massacre in Beslan, Russia, in which more than 300 died, took place six months after the Madrid attacks, which killed 191. While Russia straddles two continents, Beslan is considered to be on the European side.)
Paris Attacks: 127 Dead After 'Terrorists' Using Suicide Vests Stage Multiple Attacks and Take HostagesFrench President Francois Hollande said at least 127 were killed on Friday in a series of six coordinated attacks in Paris that he described as an "act of war" -- blaming ISIS for the violence that included shootings, explosions and a hostage situation at a concert hall."And when faced with war, the country must take appropriate decisions," Hollande said on Saturday. "An act committed by a terrorist army, DAESH [ISIS], against what we are, a free country that speaks together with the planet."Three days of national mourning in France has been declared, according to the French president. Eight attackers are dead, and seven died detonating suicide vests, according to Agence France-Presse, citing police. A Syrian passport was found on the body of an attacker near one of the attack sites, the Stade de France stadium, police told ABC News. French police said they believed all of the attackers involved in the shootings and bombings were dead, but authorities were searching for accomplices. Three hundred people were hospitalized, according to Paris medical authorities, including 80 people in life-threatening condition and 177 in somewhat critical condition. Forty three witnesses were also admitted, medical authorities said, adding that 53 people have since been discharged. Americans were among those injured, according to the State Department."The U. S. government is working closely with French authorities to identify American victims," said Deputy Spokesperson Mark Toner. "We are aware there are Americans among the injured, and are offering them the full range of consular assistance."According to Agence France-Presse, citing a police source, three of the attackers at the concert hall died when they detonated their suicide belts as police closed in. A fourth was shot dead by police. AFP said that three more attackers were dead outside the Stade de France soccer stadium and one on a street in eastern Paris. In the wake of the attacks, Hollande said he was imposing border checks and declaring a state of emergency. Anyone deemed dangerous could be placed under house arrest. Hollande called the attacks "unprecedented" and President Obama called them an attack "on all of humanity."The two leaders shared a phone call on Friday evening where Obama expressed his condolences. "The President reiterated the United States' steadfast, unwavering support for the people of France, our oldest ally and friend, and reaffirmed the offer of any necessary support to the French investigation," the White House said. In a tweet, the Elysee Palace said: "terrorists capable of such atrocities should know that they will face a determined and united France."The attacks took place at the theater, the Stade de France and four other locations in the 10th and 11th districts. At Stade de France, Germany was playing France in soccer. Hollande was at the game at the time and was evacuated. One witness, Margot Schmorak, told ABC News via Skype that one of the attacks "was around the corner from us, about a half a block down."Schmorak and three colleagues "were sitting outside on sidewalk ... we heard a bunch of gun shots. Maybe 8 to 10, and then there was kind of a pause, and there was a few more.""We actually said to each other, 'Is that gunshots or is it firecrackers or something else?' And then one of my friends actually said, 'I think it's gunshots.' And we saw people running from around the corner," she said. Another witness, Emilioi Macchio, was at a bar when he heard gunshots, according to the Associated Press."It sounded like fireworks," Macchio said, the AP reported. Police in Paris were recommending that residents avoid going out unless absolutely necessary and the subway system was shut down. All public buildings in Paris, including schools, museums, libraries and town halls, were closed indefinitely starting Saturday. The U. S. Embassy in Paris advises official U. S. personnel and citizens to shelter in place. The Department of Homeland Security said it is closely monitoring the events in Paris and said there was no specific or credible threat to the United States. DHS said it's in contact with its counterparts in the area and "will not hesitate to adjust our security posture, as appropriate, to protect the American people."Eagles of Death Metal, an American rock band that was performing at Bataclan on Friday, said in a statement, "We are still currently trying to determine the safety and whereabouts of all our band and crew. Our thoughts are with all of the people involved in this tragic situation."Gérard Araud, the French ambassador to the U. S., said he was devastated by the carnage. President Obama said from the White House Friday that, while the details of the attacks in France are unknown, the U. S. stands together with France "in the fight against terrorism and extremism."Obama called France an "extraordinary counter-terrorism partner.""Paris itself represents the timeless values of human progress," Obama said, adding that the "American people draw strength from the French people's commitment to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."A federal law enforcement source said the FBI set up a “command post” to help monitor and respond to the attacks. The FBI is actively trying to help French authorities, but as of now, U. S. authorities do not know who is responsible.
France seeks global coalition in renewed fight against ISCharlie Hebdo 'feels alone' in its fight to poke fun at the world
Paris attacks: Many arrested in raids across FranceA total of 23 people have been arrested and dozens of weapons seized in a series of raids on suspected Islamist militants across France, officials say. The crackdown follows multiple attacks on bars, restaurants, a concert hall and a stadium in Paris on Friday, in which 129 people were killed. Belgian police say two people arrested on Saturday have been charged with "participating in a terrorist attack". They were among seven people detained in Belgium at the weekend. Five of them were later released, including Mohammed Abdeslam, the brother of two suspects - Brahim Abdeslam, killed during the attacks, and Salah Abdeslam, who is on the run. France held a nationwide minute of silence at midday local time (11:00 GMT) for the victims. President Francois Hollande led the minute's silence from the Sorbonne University - an acknowledgement of the young age of so many of the 129 who died, the BBC's Hugh Schofield reports from Paris. The country has been slowly, awkwardly getting itself back into some form of routine, but because of the feelings triggered by Friday's horror, life still does not feel normal, our correspondent adds. French PM Manuel Valls said the attacks had been organised from Syria. He added that the authorities believed new terror attacks were being planned in France and other European countries. Two more Paris attackers have been named, along with five already identified. One is confirmed to have entered Greece as a migrant earlier this year, leading the head of the far-right Front National Marine Le Pen to demand that France immediately stop accepting new migrants "as a precaution". She said that the government and opposition were "irresponsible" for agreeing to what she called "the flood of migrants". As well as the attackers themselves, investigators are also reported to be focusing on a Belgian of Moroccan descent who is described as the possible mastermind of the attacks. Abdelhamid Abaoud, 27, lived in the Molenbeek neighbourhood of Brussels, as did two of the attackers, and is now believed to be based in Syria, where he has risen through the ranks of IS. Police have named Brussels-born Salah Abdeslam, 26, as a key suspect, and a manhunt is under way. He was reportedly stopped by officers in the wake of the attacks while crossing into Belgium but then let go. Belgian police carried out a raid in the Molenbeek neighbourhood on Monday morning in an attempt to capture Salah Abdeslam, but no arrests were made. Italian police have said they are searching in the Turin province for a 32-year-old French national named Baptiste Burgy, who is "suspected of being involved" in the attacks, the Ansa news agency reported. Meanwhile, French aircraft have attacked Raqqa, the stronghold in Syria of the Islamic State group, which has said it carried out the attacks. IS has issued a statement saying the raid targeted empty locations and that there were no casualties. Mr Valls said France was dealing with a "terrorist army", rather than a single terrorist group."We know that operations were being prepared and are still being prepared, not only against France but other European countries too," he said. Who were the attackers?The prime minister said more than 150 raids on militant targets had been carried out in different areas of France early on Monday."We are making use of the legal framework of the state of emergency to question people who are part of the radical jihadist movement... and all those who advocate hate of the republic," he said. Police sources told news agencies that properties in the Paris suburb of Bobigny, as well as the cities of Grenoble, Toulouse and Lyon, had been targeted. Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said 23 people had been arrested and dozens of weapons seized, including a Kalashnikov assault rifle and rocket launchers. More than 100 people have been placed under house arrest. Seven attackers died in the assault on the French capital, most of them after detonating suicide belts. Five were identified over the weekend. On Monday another two were named by the Paris prosecutor as Ahmad al-Mohammad and Samy Amimour. One of the main lines of investigation concerns Molenbeek, which has a reputation as being a haven for jihadists. France is currently marking a second day of national mourning. A state of emergency declared by President Hollande remains in force. Thousands of extra police and troops are on the streets of Paris. Bataclan concert venue, 50 Boulevard Voltaire, 11th district - 89 dead when stormed by gunmen, three of whom were killed; another gunman died nearbyLe Carillon bar and Le Petit Cambodge restaurant at rue Alibert, 10th district - 15 dead in gun attacksStade de France, St Denis, just north of Paris - three attackers and a bystander killedAre you in the area? Have you been affected by what has been happening? Do you have any information you can share? If it is safe to do so, you can get in touch by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways:
Paris attacks: Terror threat spreads to Malaysia as Obama visits – live updatesThe controversial French writer and intellectual Michel Houellebecq has issued a harsh critique of François Hollande, saying that the French president and decades of French leaders before him had failed in their fundamental mission of keeping France safe, writes the Guardian’s Rome correspondent Stephanie Kirchgaessner (@skirchy):From cuts to police budgets that made them “almost incapable of doing their jobs” to the promotion of the idea that borders were an “antiquated symbol”, Houellebecq argued in the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera that a series of mistakes by Hollande and others made them partly culpable for the terrorist threat facing France.“The inevitable conclusion is unfortunately very tough: the successive governments of the last ten years (20? 30?) have failed pathetically, systematically and heavily in their fundamental mission, which is to protect the French population, which they have been given responsibility for,” he wrote in Corriere. He lauded, instead, the French themselves. Citing opinion polls over the years, he suggested that the majority of French people had always maintained an instinct for those things that would keep the country safe: including a sense of “faith and solidarity” with French armed forces, a “disdain” for the “preaching of the moral left” to take in and house migrants and refugees, and suspicion of “foreign military adventures” in the Middle East.“It seems to me that the only solution we have left is to slowly move to the only real form of democracy, and by that I mean direct democracy,” he said. The controversial remarks are nothing new for France’s most successful living writer. His recent best-seller, Submission, which was set in 2022 and described a France with its first Muslim president, was released on the same day as the Charlie Hebdo attacks. The novel was panned by some feminists for its depiction of women, and by left-leaning critics who accused him of playing into the hands of xenophobic right-wing politicians who have stoked fears about Muslims. The chain smoking Houellebecq, who is often referred to as a “bad-boy novelist” has been a fixture of the French literary scene since 2001. In an interview with the Guardian earlier this year, Houellebecq said he would probably describe himself as islamophobic, in so far as “phobia” meant he feared rather than hated Islam. The writer has lived under constant police guard since January’s terrorist attacks on the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris. Writing for Corriere, Houellebecq described how, since January, even his own response to terrorism had changed, because such atrocities were practically becoming part of daily existence in France. In the aftermath of the Charlie Hebdo attacks, he said, he spent two days glued to the television. But on Friday, after the latest series of attacks, he said he just called his friends in the affected areas, which was a lot of people.“We get used even to attacks,” he said. “France will persevere.”
Paris attacks 'mastermind' Abdelhamid Abaaoud 'killed' during raid on flat in French capitalThe man accused of masterminding the Paris attacks that left almost 130 people dead has reportedly been killed during a pre-dawn raid on a flat in the French capital. Abdelhamid Abaaoud, believed to be 27, was thought to have been the focus of a raid on a Paris flat earlier today. Gunfire and seven explosions were heard in the Saint-Denis suburb after police raided a flat at around 4.30am. According to the Washington Post, two senior intelligence officials confirmed the prominent Isis militant had been killed during the confrontation. French prosecutor Francois Molins, overseeing the investigation, told a press conference this evening that due to the "state of the bodies" they were unable to confirm their identities."I am not able to give you precise information about the identitiy of the people who have died," he told reporters. Two people inside the flat - speculated as Abaaoud and possibly Salah Abdeslam - died after a female suicide bomber reportedly detonated her explosive belt. Five people were arrested following the raid, including another woman, in which five policemen were injured. The location of Abaaoud’s death will not reflect well on either the French or the Belgium security services, who had previously stated he was in Syria or Isis-controlled territories. Abaaoud was born in Belgium and grew up in the Brussels suburb of Molenbeek, which had become a key focus for investigators in recent days. Although studying at a Catholic school, he became involved in petty crime with his family shocked when he took his 13-year-old brother Younes with him to travel to Syria in January 2014. Like many who travel to the so-called “Islamic State”, his actions appear to have been motivated by a thirst for power, violence and unaccountability than religion. “They did not even go to the mosque,” the brothers’ older sister Yasmina told the New York Times earlier this year. Abaaoud, after being trained and further radicalised in Syria, returned to Europe via Athens. In the months preceeding the attack, he gave an interview to Isis-propaganda magazine Dabiq in which he claimed a Belgium police officer had detained him, but allowed him to go after failing to recognise him. The interview led security officials to believe Abaaoud was in Syria. He was also linked to foiled terror attacks in Europe, including one aboard a Paris-bound high speed train that was prevented by two US soldiers overpowering the attacker.
Paris attacks: Two die in hunt for 'mastermind' AbaaoudA woman has blown herself up and a suspect was shot dead during a police raid on a flat in a Paris suburb, while seven arrests were made. Police targeted the flat in Saint-Denis in a search for the alleged mastermind of Friday's gun and bomb attacks in Paris, when 129 people were killed. The fate of Abdelhamid Abaaoud, previously thought to be in Syria, is still unclear. A government spokesman said remains of a third body may be under the rubble. Prosecutor Francois Molins announced earlier that intelligence indicated Abaaoud was in Paris. All victims of Friday's attacks - which targeted a concert hall, cafes and the Stade de France stadium and were claimed by the so-called Islamic State (IS) group - have now been identified, the government said. The police operation in Saint-Denis - where the Stade de France is located - began at 04:20 (03:20 GMT). Speaking from the scene afterwards, Mr Molins said it had been ordered after phone taps and surveillance operations suggested Abaaoud, a Belgian of Moroccan descent, could be there. The prosecutor said a young woman - said by France's BFMTV to be a relative of Abaaoud - had detonated her explosives belt soon after the raid began. Another suspect was killed by grenades and police bullets, Mr Molins said. The spokesman for the French interior ministry, Pierre-Henry Brandet, later told French TV station BFMTV that work was being done to establish whether the remains of a "third terrorist" were buried in the rubble. Five members of the RAID police anti-terrorism unit were lightly injured while a RAID "assault dog", a seven-year-old Belgian Shepherd called Diesel, was killed. Three men were arrested in the apartment. Two others were found hiding in rubble and a further two - including the man who provided the lodging - were also detained, he said. He did not give the identities of those detained. Saint-Denis is a multicultural, multi-religious, multi-ethnic suburb or banlieue. There are Africans, Indians, Chinese, Turkish and many more from different backgrounds. Many have "sans-papiers" status - meaning they do not yet have a legal status and an ID which would allow them to find a job. During my visit to Saint-Denis on Tuesday, I heard quite a lot of "us versus them" when people talked about the "Parisians" and themselves in the banlieues. As the operation got under way, roads were blocked off around Rue de la Republique in Saint-Denis, by lorry-loads of soldiers and armed police. Local residents, who were urged to stay indoors, spoke of hearing continuous gunshots and large explosions. Amine Guizani told the Associated Press: "They were shooting for an hour, non-stop. There were grenades. It was going, stopping, Kalashnikovs, starting again."French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve praised the security forces for operating "under fire for a number of hours in conditions that we have never seen before today". Special report: In-depth coverage of the attacks and their aftermathThe near simultaneous attacks on Friday Friday left more than 400 people wounded, with 221 still in hospital, 57 of them in intensive care. European countries are on high alert. On Tuesday evening, a football friendly between Germany and the Netherlands was cancelled shortly before kick-off and two Air France planes heading to Paris from the US were diverted because of security threats. IS said it had carried out the attacks in response to France's air campaign against its leadership in Syria, and pledged further bloodshed. French President Francois Hollande said on Wednesday that IS threatened the whole world and he would be seeking a "large coalition" to work together to defeat the militant group. IS is a notoriously violent Islamist group which controls large parts of Syria and Iraq. It has declared its territory a caliphate - a state governed in accordance with Islamic law - under its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. IS demands allegiance from all Muslims, rejects national borders and seeks to expand its territory. It follows its own extreme version of Sunni Islam and regards non-believers as deserving of death. IS projects a powerful image, partly through propaganda and sheer brutality, and is the world's richest insurgent group. It has about 30,000 fighters but is facing daily bombing by a US-led multi-national coalition, which has vowed to destroy it.
